Share this on WhatsApp



 
As part of the strategic directions aimed at achieving superior after-sales quality of service and enhancing customer relationship, Weststar Associates Limited (Authorized General Distributors of Mercedes-Benz Passenger and Commercial vehicles in the Federal Republic of Nigeria) in collaboration with one of its authorized dealerships – Barbedos Cars Limited is holding a special service campaign for owners of the brand in Abuja from 6th November to 8th December, 2017. 
The service campaign is initiated to help reduce the frequency of road casualties by attracting Mercedes-Benz customers to come partake in free service of their cars at a much more subsidized cost.
The campaign, National Daily gathered will serves as an opportunity for Mercedes-Benz passenger car owners in Abuja to bring their cars to the workshop in preparation for the upcoming yuletide season.
ALSO SEE: Stakeholders renew call for listing of multinational on NSE
According to a statement from Weststar Associates, special offers for each week will include free diagnostics and engine checks, free labor for every car serviced, availability of genuine parts at special prices and also, free parts and service advice for the next five weeks. 
 “At Weststar and its authorized dealerships nationwide, we believe that after-sales plays a critical role in the life-span of each Mercedes-Benz vehicle. Hence, with our highly qualified technicians and substantial availability of genuine spare parts, we intend to get our customers vehicles ready for the Christmas season starting with the Abuja dealership network. All our authorized dealerships are equipped to the highest standard in line with the Mercedes-Benz global benchmark.” – Michael Bromberger, General Manager, Aftersales, Weststar Associates Limited.
The company assured customers of the well-being of their cars as they prepare for family vacations in the coming month. 
He said the campaign is Weststar’s little contribution towards ensuring safe travels for Nigerians planning to commute to various locations across the country. 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment