Kogi former Gov. Idris Wada and Taraba former Ag. Gov Sani Danladi were invited and detained by the EFCC on Monday following their links to the N950 million former Oil Minister Doezani Allison-Madueke dished out for the PDP presidential campaign before the 2015 election.

Wada was said to have got N500 million, while Danladi pocketed N450 million.

These were part of the N23bn Diezani funnelled through the then Director of Finance of the Goodluck Jonathan Campaign Organisation, Senator Nenadi Usman.

The spokesman for the EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, confirmed that Wada was detained by the commission.

“Yes, he was invited by the EFCC over N500m Diezani money. He is still in our custody,” Uwujaren said.

The EFCC Gombe zonal office also interrogated Danladi who got his share through Senators Joel Dallami Ikenya and Mark Useni.

Danladi, who was arrested detained, and released on bail last week, told the interrogators that he chaired the eight-man committee that disbursed the money for Taraba.

According to the EFCC, he further stated that, he and the other members of the committee shared N36m among themselves while the balance of N414m was distributed to other stakeholders across the 16 local government areas of the state and one Development Area Council.
 
It was learnt that at least 20 former ministers and governors who are members of the PDP may be detained by the commission

The PDP governors controlled the loot distribution in their states, while the ministers handled non-PDP states.

ALSO SEE: Nigeria is not an oil economy

They were alleged to have received a minimum of N450m each.

Some of the former governors and ministers that may be picked up soon include  a former Minister of Power, Mohammed Wakil (Borno); and a former Minister of Science and 
Technology, Alhaji Abdu Bulama (Yobe).

Others are former governor Sullivan Chime of Enugu State (now a member of the All Progressives Congress), the immediate past governor of Kebbi, Saidu Dakin Garin; former governor Ibrahim Shekarau of Kano, former governor Ali Modu Sheriff of Borno, former governor James Ngilari of Adamawa; and a former governor of Zamfara, Mamuda Shinkafi.

Lucky Imasuen, a former deputy governor of Edo,  and a former Secretary to the State Government of Edo State Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, may be re-invited for allegedly collecting N700 million from the fund.

The source said many of the PDP chieftains had promised to return some of the funds but had failed to do so and therefore had to be invited.

Diezani herself has been trapped in the UK where she bolted immediately sitting President Goodluck Jonathan lost power to the APC in 2015. The UK authorities had begun investigating her before then, and her arrest was effected.

She is facing money-laundering trial in the U.K now.

			
			PV: 
			0