Share this on WhatsApp
President Muhammadu Buhari has revealed how his government saves the nation about N25 billion monthly by ending payment of unnecessary allowances for government officials and blocking other financial leakages in all its agencies.

He said this Saturday in Jos at the graduation ceremony of Senior Executive Course 39 of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, NIPSS, Kuru, Plateau state.

The graduation of 66 Senior Executive in Course 39 brings to 1990 members who have passed through the institute since its creation.

Security agencies dominated membership of the course. No fewer than 8 are females, and 28 out of the 66 participants for the 10-month course are members of security agencies including a female commissioner of police.

In his address, Buhari, represented by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, also said his government has tackled corruption head on, and will not stop the fight.

According to him, the ongoing elementary school feeding programme has targeted 5.5 million children to be captured in 19 states before the end the administration’s tenure, and the challenges of power supply will soon be over.

He urged authorities of NIPSS to improve on recommendations made by its participants while discussing national economic development.

The president assured that the federal government would make”good use of recommendations of the course participants on agriculture.”

ALSO SEE: Banks go after tank farms, petrol stations over debts

NIPSS’s Acting Director General Jonathan Juma said participants who attended the institute since it was established 39 years ago have impacted positively on nation building.

Juma said the mission of NIPSS is to serve as a centre for policy, advocacy, advice and training for Nigeria and Africa in the context of a dynamic and changing world.

However, the institute, he said, is also affected by recession and requested for financial intervention from the federal government to help replace its operational vehicles.

Members of Course 39 during their study year toured 12 countries and 12 states within Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment