Deputy Governor, Dr. (Mrs) Oluranti Adebule (2nd right); Commissioner for Youth & Social development, Pharm. (Mrs) Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf (right); Chairman, Agbado-Oke Ode, Dr. Augustine Arogundade (3rd right); Permanent Secretary/Tutor-General, District I, Dr. Yinka Ayandele (3rd left); Chairman, State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB), Alhaji Ganiyu Sopeyin (2nd left) and Special Adviser to the Governor on Housing, Mrs. Aramide Giwanson (left) during the commissioning of a 13 block of Classrooms at  L.A Nursery and Primary School, Oke Ishagun, Alimosho, Lagos, on Tuesday, November 7, 2017.
        Share this on WhatsApp

Commissions 77 Blocks of classrooms in Alimosho, Mushin, Epe
Hands over Nine newly renovated PHCs

Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, on Tuesday, said that his administration will stop at nothing to provide the very best of education for every child at all levels in the State in line with its all-inclusive policy.

The Governor who spoke at the commissioning of several blocks of classrooms and school infrastructures across the State, said the Government’s resolve to ensure qualitative education for children prompted the investment of resources towards the provision and upgrading of infrastructure, particularly at the primary school level.

“More importantly, the basic education level is a crucial stage because it is the foundation upon which all other levels are built. It is our desire therefore to ensure that this level of education is strengthened to enhance the future prospects of our children and their ability to cope with the challenges of higher levels of education,” the Governor said.

Represented at the commissioning of newly constructed block of 13 classrooms with other educational facilities at Community Primary School, Oke Ishagun in Alimosho by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Mrs Oluranti Adebule, the Governor said his administration will not deviate from its vision to develop a robust public education system that can compare with the best in the world, just as he restated his administration’s commitment to ensuring that the ongoing rehabilitation and construction of classrooms is extended to all public schools in the State irrespective of the area and location.

The Governor thanked teachers in Lagos for their role in molding the lives of children, assuring that their dedication to their growth and development will continue to be rewarded by his administration with improved welfare and working conditions.

“To our pupils, the future belongs to you if you listen to your teachers and your parents. You can achieve anything you put your mind to but you must work hard and pay attention. Read your books and focus on achieving your dreams and develop yourself daily,” he said.

Besides, Ambode also charged people of the community as well as community leaders to guard the facilities jealously, adding that they must be properly maintained so that they can serve for a long time.

The Governor, through his representatives also commissioned the newly rehabilitated Block of 32 Classrooms with Office and Toilets, School Hall, Fence, Gate House and Food Shop at Christ Church Cathedral Primary School, Broad Street; Block of 13 Classrooms with Toilets, Offices and Fire Alarm at Community Primary School, Abule Eko, Ijede, Lagos; Block of 13 Classrooms with Toilets, Offices and Fire Alarm at Community Primary School, Ado Ikosi, 
Epe, Lagos and Six Classrooms with Toilets, Offices and Fire Alarm at Odu Abore Primary School, Mushin, Lagos.

More so, Ambode commissioned nine newly renovated Primary Health Care Centers (PHCs), stating that one of the core policy objectives of his administration in the health sector is to build a vibrant healthcare system through the revitalization of all PHCs in the State.

At the commissioning of the newly renovated Pakpa-Uku Primary Health Care Centre, Agege, he said that primary healthcare is the bedrock of healthcare service delivery system worldwide as they are the closest to the people.

Represented at the event by the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Jide Idris, the Governor said that the renovation and equipping of the Pakpa-Uku PHC is in line with State government’s desire to bring quality health care services close to where people live and work.

Ambode while noting that the facility should be the first point of contact for all households within the community added that with the renovation of the PHC, the people of the community are assured of quality health care service delivery stressing that the PHC is equipped with medical facilities and personnel to attend to their health needs.

ALSO SEE: Muslim boy loves Christian girl, kidnaps her in Jos

“Health conditions that are not within the capacity of this primary health care facility will be referred to the appropriate General Hospital for further examination and treatment”, the Governor stated.

Ambode, through his representatives, also commissioned eight other newly renovated PHCs, including Sura Primary Healthcare Centre at Lagos Island East; Maidan Primary Healthcare Centre at Ikosi-Isheri; Orisunbare Primary Healthcare Centre at Alimosho; Agarawu Primary Healthcare Centre at Lagos Island; Oba Salami Primary Healthcare Centre at Yaba; Oshodi Primary Healthcare Centre; Onigbongbo Primary Healthcare Centre at Onigbongbo and the Ojodu Primary Healthcare Centre at Ojodu.

Meanwhile, the Governor while commissioning a modern Fibre Glass Boat donated to riverine Communities in Epe, assured existing and potential investors in water transportation of the commitment of his administration to develop the sector to international standards through construction of modern jetties and terminals as well as channelization of waterways.

Governor Ambode, who was represented by the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Hon. Lola Akande, said his administration was also making efforts to strengthen the regulatory framework for the effective monitoring of operators with an overriding objective of guaranteeing safety of lives on Lagos water ways.

He said that the boat was manufactured from durable Fibre Glass which makes it lighter and faster on the waterways compared to the conventional wooden boats, adding that it is also equipped with safety items, including standard safety vests to ensure that passengers are secured in the events of any mishap.

On the strategic benefits of the boat, the Governor expressed confidence that the Fibre Boats would give a boost to social and economic activities of the fishermen and fish processors in outlying island near Epe, by providing a fast means of moving their stock to the mainland while school children in the hinterland will be availed the opportunity of safe transportation to and from schools on the mainland.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment