Share this on WhatsApp
A 24-year-old, Shaibu Adejoh, was among 16 people arrested by operatives of the Kogi State Police Command over allegations of stealing his boss’ Toyota Camry Muzzle car.

The car was said to be stolen in  Lagos by the suspect and taken to Kogi state for potential buyer.

While parading him and 15 others to newsmen in Lokoja, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, ASP Williams Aya, explained that the suspect stole the blue Toyota Camry with registration number: KRD 412 EX which was recovered from him.

Aya said the suspect, Adejoh, resident Achigili area of Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi, was seen with the car as he approached people in the community to help him to sell it off.

Suspecting that Adejoh might have stolen the car, decided to report him to the police which led to his arrest on the 8th November by operatives of the Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS).

Explaining what he knew about the thief of the car, Adejoh, said he was on a salary of N45,000 per month as a driver of his “Madam” in Lagos. “I decided to steal the car when she left the car in my care and travelled abroad.”

The police spokesman, however noted that other 15 suspects were involved in armed robbery, homicide, kidnapping, cattle rustling and cult activities.

Aya added that the suspects have been terrorising the state especially Idah and its environs in Kogi East Senatorial District for some time hence they laid siege on them culminating into the arrest of the  criminals.

ALSO SEE: Police nab serial scammers at Idi-Araba

Among those paraded were a 5-member kidnap gang who had kidnapped a farmer, Mr Ogbu Chikechi of Egabada, Igalamela-Odolu Local Government Area, while harvesting egg fruits (garden egg) in his farm on the 29th October.

The victim was kidnapped after the suspects emerged from the bush and attacked him with cutlasses, and later collected N100,000 as ransom before they released him from captivity.

Recovered from them included four AK 47 guns; one pump action gun; a Car Jack; a mask; a locally made bullet proof vest; rounds of ammunition as well as other dangerous weapons and charms.

Aya reiterated that the Commissioner of Police in the state, Ali Aji Janga, has given directive that on completion of investigation, they should be charged to court for prosecution.

However, the CP admonished the residents of the state to report any suspected criminals while at the same time, charged the Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers (DPOs) to beef up security in their respective area of jurisdiction.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment