Share this on WhatsApp

Men of the Lagos Police Command Ojo Police Division, with the support of Okoko division, Rapid Response Squad and neighbouring divisions as well as army officers from Ojo cantonment, engaged okada riders who had blocked the Lagos – Badagry Expressway to protest the enforcement of Lagos State Traffic Laws.

Led by the DPO Ojo Police Division, CSP Abubakar Umoru, the riders along with hundreds of miscreants had about 7am on Thursday converged close to Lagos State University, Ojo (LASU) main gate and blocked the expressway in protest against stopping them from plying the expressway, as stipulated in Lagos State Traffic Law.

National Daily learnt that the presence of okada riders on the highway in large numbers, drew the attention of CSP Umoru, who speedily mobilised his officers along with  Alhaji Usman Kanua, Chairman of the Motorcycle riders in the area.

While appealing to them to recede their decision, it was gathered that  the protesters agreed and dispersed peacefully.

However, they later re – emerged creating bonfire and blocking both sides of the expressway.


ALSO SEE: Court summons, Saraki, other senators over IG’s probe


A police source revealed that the protesters were wielding dangerous objects and hauling stones at the police and every passing vehicle, shattering their windscreens and injured some police officers in the process.

Not relenting in their quest to make a statement, the DPO had to call for reinforcement from other police divisions and Ojo Cantonment of the Nigerian Army.

Due to the large number of security men, they were able to successfully dispelled the rioters while normalcy had since returned to the area.

It was gathered that due to the ongoing construction work along Ojo-Badagry expressway, the okada riders have been defiling Government’s restriction order of okada (motorcycle) on the highway.

Also, the okada riders have been making fast money cashing in on the road construction to charge between N500 to N1000 from Ojo to Trade Fair Complex.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment