Share this on WhatsApp



An okada man who specialised in enjoying free sex under the pretence that his manhood is missing has been arrested in Festac Town in Lagos by operatives of Rapid Response Squad of the Lagos Police Command.

The suspect, Okechukwu Desmond, was said to have formed the habit of raising false alarm of his missing manhood in order to get free sex whenever he carries young ladies in Festac Area of the metropolis.

The rider,  allegedly picked a young lady whose name was not disclosed at Apple Junction, Festac, around 9:00 p.m. yesterday but midway into the journey, Okechukwu raised alarm that his passenger (a lady) has taken his manhood.

It was gathered that the speedy intervention of the Rapid Response Squad saved the lady from been mobbed by angry youths who had converged at the scene from lyching the young lady for using charm to take the manhood of the okada rider.

As a result, the RRS team had to transfer the case to the nearest police station in Festac.
Unfortunately for the commercial motorcyclist, it was discovered that he had recently reported a similar case of a missing manhood at the same police station.

National Daily learnt that on further interrogation, the okada rider confessed to the police about his habit of getting cheap sex from unsuspecting ladies that patronise him by raising false alarm that they have stolen his manhood.





ALSO SEE: Pogba names premier league’s best striker

Police source further revealed that  Okechukwu had once reported in the same station similar incident where he demanded he be put up with a commercial sex worker to test whether his manhood was still functioning.

After his confession, Okechukwu disclosed that nothing was wrong with his manhood and that all he wanted was free sex.

He could, however, not disclosed how many ladies he has done it to.

While the lady was allowed to go after offering statement to the police, the rider was taken into custody at Base 44, Festac Police Station for further investigation into the case.

It could not be ascertained if he would be charged to court after the completion of investigation.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment