The authorities of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, in Osun State have suspended the activities of students’ union over frequent crisis, which include alleged cult attacks and stabbing among the students.
The University Public Relations Officer of the OAU, Biodun Olarewaju, made this known to journalist.
He explained that the decision was taken after an emergency meeting held by the management of the university.
In the release, he described the cause of the proscription as “the unacceptable misdemeanors manifested by the students in the short period of its existence after recent reinstatement.”
He added, “In order to forestall total breakdown of law and order and curtail acts of brigandage among the student populace, the authorities of the OAU have suspended all activities of the university’s SU until further notice.
ALSO SEE: Why 2018 budget may be delayed beyond 2017
“Incessant fighting and unruly behaviour during their congresses and the recalcitrant attitudes of their leadership have made it inevitable for the university management to suspend their activities.
“Apart from the fighting between the vice-president and the Director of Socials in which headbutts and stabbing with broken bottles were freely used, the supporters of the president beat up the speaker on June 29 and 30, while the speaker’s supporters, in retaliation, beat up the president on September 15.
“The management also condemns, in strong terms, the forceful release of students under investigation from Police custody on October 6, and the unwarranted vandalising of people’s vehicles, particularly those of the Ekiti State chapter of the Nigerian Union of Journalists and members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers.
“We also frown at unfounded rumour of tuition increase and fabricated threat of invasion by cultists in order to deceive and falsely gain acceptance among the student populace to precipitate crisis capable of disrupting the academic activities of the university and recent serious fighting, open fracas, at the meeting of the Union where the president of the SU was brutally assaulted and which, if not properly and promptly addressed, could lead to fatal consequences.”
He further warned that no student should parade him- or herself as a leader or representative of students in order to cause disruption to university activities, under whatever guise.

			
			PV: 
			0