Share this on WhatsApp
APC National Legal Adviser Muiz Banire has voiced out as the fight between him and the Lagos chapter of the party gets messier.

The former Lagos commissioner told pressmen Wednesday that Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is persecuting him.

Nut political watchers in the state know their fight dates back to 2015 when Banire opposed Ambode’s choice as APC candidate for the 2015 governorship election in Lagos.

On becoming governor, Ambode too has been rattling the lawyer as much as he can. He was believed to have orchestrated Banire’s suspension from the Mushin branch of the party.

In a statement on Wednesday, Banire said the governor and the Lagos government of plotting to demolish a house he acquired from the federal government.

According to him, the Lagos government is hell-bent on persecuting his family for no reason besides that he insisted on the need to observe the rule of law,
“My siblings and I acquired a lease of the property known as 24A, Remi Fani-Kayode Street, GRA, Ikeja, Lagos from the Federal Government to serve as residence for my aged mother,” the politician said.

ALSO SEE: Ambode swears-in Adesoye as 20th Head of Service

He said a notice by a Lagos government ministry demanded “within 24 hours, proof of planning permit obtained before the building was constructed.

“The contravention notice further threatened demolition of my mother’s two-bedroom bungalowwithin 48 hours of the notice.

“I had earlier said that the Lagos State government, under the governorship of Akinwunmi Ambode is out on a vendetta and having failed to get me removed as the National Legal Adviser of All Progressives Congress, has targeted my supporters for persecution.”

He said the more recent is the invasion and sealing up of the residence of Honourable Funmilayo Tejuoso without a court order and in flagrant disregard to pending proceedings of the Lagos State High Court in a suit instituted by Honourable Tejuoso’s company and the Lagos State Government.

The lawyer said he is not in anyway frightened by what he called the act of terrorism by the the state government and that all necessary reactions to the notice have been escalated to both the Lagos State Government and the Federal Government. His lawyers have have also responded.

“I am ready for the sacrifice even if I have to in the process sleep on the street of Lagos,” he affirned.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment