Share this on WhatsApp



 
A subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Nigerian Gas Company, faces possible shutdown as Gbaramatu communities in Delta state have issued a 14-day ultimatum to the company over the August 25, 2017 gas explosion that rocked the communities.
Ikpokpo, Okpele-Ama, Otogbene, Atanba and other Gbaramatu communities in Warri South-West Local Government Area of the state, want NGC, now known as Nigerian Gas Processing and Transportation Company, owners and managers of the facility to carry out assessment of the extent of damage to people and communities arising from the gas explosion, implement remedial steps and compensate the people and communities affected by the gas explosion.
The Gbaramatu communities gave the ultimatum at the weekend after a meeting of the affected communities to review an alleged ongoing forceful repair of the damaged gas pipeline by the company without carrying out joint investigation visit to determine the cause of the explosion.
A statement personally signed by leaders of the communities, Mr. Godwin Akori and Mr. Edward Odudu, said appeals to the Minister of State, Petroleum, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, to intervene on the matter have proved abortive, hence the two weeks ultimatum.
ALSO SEE: NNPC’s fuel subsidy under recoveries hits N89.76bn
“When the communities noticed the massive emission of gas from the Escravos to Warri gas pipeline at Ikpokpo community, Gbaramatu Kingdom on August 25, 2017, it promptly informed officials of the NGC office in Warri and the Warri Zonal office of the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency.
“Whereupon NOSDRA called for a meeting of stakeholders on October 12, 2017 in Warri and directed that a Joint Investigation Visit should be carryout to ascertained the cause of the gas explosion.”
“However, NGC completely disregarded the NOSDRA directive and instead mobilize contractor to the site of the explosion with the aid of men of the Nigerian Army to forcefully carryout repair of the leaked gas pipeline without the addressing the grievances of the affected Gbaramartu communities.”
The communities’ leaders further stated that all efforts by the Zonal office of NOSDRA in the state to get NGC to carryout JIV and take steps to ascertain the extent of damage and carryout out remedial actions have failed.
The communities threatened to shut down all NGC operations in Gbaramatu Kingdom, Delta State at the expiration of the two weeks ultimatum.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment