Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe, who is one of the three sureties for the bail granted IPOB leader Nnamdi Kanu, appeared in court ahead of the Monday’s hearing in the trial of the IPOB’s leader.

By 9.50am the senator was seated in courtroom on the fourth floor of the court building where the Monday’s proceedings are to take place.

The trial judge, Justice Binta Nyako,  had on October 17, 2017, ordered  Abaribe and two other sureties to appear in court to explain the IPOB leader’s whereabouts.

Kanu bailed out of the country few weeks ago at the heoght of his group’s agitation with the Nigeria military, thus violating the conditions of the bail granted him by the judge on April 24, 2017.

His three co-defendants – the National Coordinator of IPOB, Mr. Chidiebere Onwudiwe; an IPOB member, Benjamin Madubugwu; and a former Field Maintenance Engineer seconded to the MTN, David Nwawuisi – were produced in court by prison officials.

Another defendant missing was Bright Chimezie, who was brought in following an amendment of the charges was also absent.

The new co-defendant was said to be in the custody of the Department of State Service.
Kanu’s lawyer Ifeanyi Ejiofor told Justice Nyako on October 17 that Kanu had been missing after soldiers allegedly invaded the IPOB leader’s home‎ on September 14, 2017.

He argued the Nigerian Army was in the best position to produce the defendant.

A lawyer, Mr. Ogechi Ogunna, appeared for Abaribe informing the judge ‎that his client had filed a motion seeking to be discharged as Kanu’s surety.

‎The two other sureties, Immanuel Shalum Okabenmabu and Tochukwu Uchendu, were absent from court and not represented by any lawyer on Tuesday.

ALSO SEE: IPOB goes under as polling goes smoothly in Anambra

‎But Justice Nyako said Abaribe’s motion will not be heard until Kanu is produced in court.
The prosecuting counsel, Mr. Shuabu Labaran, who was led by Mr. Saleh Barkum, noted that Kanu was absent from court.

He urged the court to order the arrest of the IPOB leader for being absent from court on Tuesday.
 
Ejiofor, however, told the judge that Kanu was ready to face trial until the military invasion after which he had become missing.

Kanu and IPOB have been agitating for a referendum that they believe will usher in secession of th southeast to form a sovereign Biafran republic.