Share this on WhatsApp


as customers grab N15m, 18 consolation prizes in promo

By Chioma Obinagwam

The Consumer Protection Council (CPC), the National Lottery Regulatory Commission as well as the Lagos State Lotteries Board have commended Fidelity Bank for conducting its ‘Get Alert In Millions Promo Reloaded’ raffle draws in a transparent manner.

This commendation was made at the maiden edition of the promo, which took place at its head office in Lagos on Thursday, November 16, 2017.

Reacting to the promo, the Acting Head, CPC, Lagos office, Susie Onwuka said:
“What we have observed is that Fidelity Bank is transparent. We try to do a kind of verification to ensure that all the winners get their prizes. Even after the promo they give us the list of winners,” she said.

“We have always advocated electronic draws which eliminates almost all bias. Although nothing is 100 per cent perfect but it is better than the manual draws.”

‘Get Alert In Millions Promo Reloaded’ is a promo, which commenced in October, 2017, where customers of the bank stand a chance to win N82 million in its monthly draws and N28 million in its bimonthly draws in addition to consolation prizes.

According to one of the Executive Directors of the bank, Chijioke Ugochukwu, the promo which is expected to last for six months, has already given out N15 million and 18 consolation prizes of Television(TV) sets, Refrigerators and Generators to customers of the bank in its maiden edition.

ALSO SEE: Heritage Bank may be facing liquidity challenges

A breakdown of the winners showed that Ezeokafor Felix Chukwuma, an auto spare parts dealer from Gbagada branch won N1 million where as Osakwe Franca Dumebi, another customer from AIT branch, also won N1 million.

However, consolation prizes of one TV set, one Generator and one Refridgerator went to Hannah Oluwaseun Michael, Agolo Patience Ejoboselem and Emeka Udokwu of Admiralty Way, AIT and Suru Alaba branches respectively.

From the northern region, Usman Adamu Sani of Jalingo branch in Taraba State won N1 million.

The second N1 million went to Amina Aliyu of Gowon road branch in Kaduna State.

Moreover, consolation prizes of a TV set, a Generator and a Refridgerator went to Jibrin Sale, Nuru Yusuf and Muhammed Musa of Bayero University branch, Ibrahim Taiwo road branch in Kano State and Tudun Wada branch of Kaduna State respectively.

Abuja also recorded two cash winners of N1 million each, where Blessing Chima Amadife of Karo branch grabbed N1 million and Abimbola Yemisi Awoyo, a pensioner from Maitama branch notched N1 million among other consolation prize winners.

In the same manner, the Southwest produced two millionaires who won N1 million each. Isaac Aringbangba of Ado Ekiti branch got N1 million and Michael Agbolaga Okutubo of Abeokuta branch also walked away with N1 million in addition to other consolation prize winners.

However, the draws for the Southsouth region where in N2 million and N1 million categories which went to Benignus Osita Ezeugwu of Sapele road branch in Edo State and Abdulkadir Isyaku of Obaa market branch, Benin in Edo State, respectively.

Moreso, consolation prize winners just like other regions also emerged in the Southsouth region and were awarded to Sarah Nwanya of Agbor Branch in Delta State; Bridget Edet Udoh of Uyo branch, Akwa Ibom State and Onose Loveth of Yenegoa branch, Bayelsa State who walked away with a TV set, a Generator and a Refrigerator respectively.

Nevertheless, the Southeast zone, recorded a star prize winner of N2 million in the person of Miracle Kanayo of ASUTH Igbariam branch, Anambra State University even as two other cash winners- Stephen Ogonna Ifeanyi and Akosa Nneka Obioma grabbed N1 million each.

Consolation prizes of a TV set, a Generator and a Refrigerator went to Udah Victor Omokeshimi, Cyriacus Chijioke Kamen and Obumneme Maxwell Nwatu of Nnamdi Azikiwe University branch, Ihiala, Anambra State and Nwatu Okpara Avenue in Enugu State respectively.

Afam Ojeh, Deputy Manager at National Lottery Regulatory Commission who also commended the bank for conducting the draws in a transparent manner said: “In a nutshell, it was transparent and the way it was conducted, it was wide spreadout. Every category of the society benefited. The bottom line is to ensure that the promo is transparent.”

Corroborating, Senior Legal Officer, Lagos State Lotteries Board, Seyi Oreagba said: ” It was a fair promo. The entire process was transparent. That is what we look for in promos- transparency and due process.”

Meanwhile, the promo committee chairman, Obaro Odeghe called on Nigerians to be a part of the promo by opening an account with Fidelity Bank and save up to N20,000 to become eligible for the promo whiles enjoining existing customers to top up their account to enjoy the promo.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment