Share this on WhatsApp

Defence Headquarters on Tuesday said that the complaint made in an anonymous petition have been thoroughly investigated and found to be false, malicious and not true.
The Director, Defence Information (DDI) Major General John Enenche said in Abuja that in order to inform the anonymous writer(s) and the general public about the true situation, the defence headquarters decided to investigate the content of the petition with a view to putting record straight.
 
The petitioner had alleged in the petition titled: “Petition Letter to Nigerian Army/United Nations: Regarding NIBATTS 34 and 35 Peacekeeping Missions in Liberia” that the military authority denied soldiers of risk premium allowances of those that served in Nigerian Battalions (NIBATTS) 34 and 35 Peace Keeping Mission in Liberia.
 
General Enenche explained that “On receipt of the original copy of the anonymous petition on non-payment of risk premium allowance in July 2017, a high level investigation was set up immediately.
 
National Daily gathered that “The investigative body got documents from United Nations office in New York, Defence Adviser in New York, Defence and Nigerian Army Headquarters finance offices and Diamond Bank plc.”

He further explained that through “logical and confirmatory investigation,” they found that “the United Nations approved six (6) months risk premium allowance for NIBATTS 34 and 35 and not nine (9) months as claimed in the anonymous petition.
 
In addition, DHQ responded that, “The allowance approved per month range between US $132.90 and $132.99 per month depending on the approved rate per day.

ALSO SEE: Last enemy Atiku must conquer before 2019

“The accruable amount paid by the UN for the six months in two instalments was US$787.98.  However, US $ 789.10 was paid to each personnel in two instalments.  Each personnel collected US $ 400 before departing the mission area and US $ 389.10 paid into their domiciliary accounts with Diamond Bank,” Gen Enenche reiterated.

In view of its findings orchestrated by the petition, the defence spokesperson added, “de-inducted NIBATTS 34 AND 35 personnel, members of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and the general public” should note that “the approved allowance by UN was duly remitted to the beneficiaries.” 

Gen Enenche admonished the general public to disregard the content of the petition adding that the Defence Headquarters and services would always continue to administer military personnel in line with best international practices while ensuring that their  welfare are remitted to officers and men promptly.

He charged every service personnel to remain focused on constitutional role of protecting Nigeria’s territorial integrity while carrying out other tasks assigned to the military by appropriate Superior Authority.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment