Share this on WhatsApp

as GLEED hosts youths




Ahead of the 2019 General election, leading politicians from across the 6 South-South states will mentor, inspire and share experiences with over 2000 Young people from South-South Nigeria.
The event scheduled for the 24th of November at the Calabar Cultural Centre, is part of a National effort to mobilise young people for political leadership across Nigeria.
The Emerging Political Leaders Forum is the largest gathering of Emerging Political Leaders and next generation politicians in Nigeria. The gathering provides a platform for learning political and election strategies from experts and political leaders for emerging political leaders. 
The South West Edition recently held in Lagos and was attended by over 4000 Young Leaders who interacted with political leaders from various political divides across South West States including Former Governor Segun Mimiko (Ondo PDP), Prof Remi Sonaiya (Osun KOWA), Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila (Leader of the House of Reps), Rt. Hon Abike Dabiri-Erewa (APC – SSA to the President), Mr Jimi Agbaje (PDP Lagos) and many other top politicians from the Southwest.
The South East Forum also scheduled for Imo State on Saturday 18th November 2017, and the South-South Forum on Friday 24th November 2017 in Calabar, before heading to Northern Nigeria and the Diaspora.
Confirmed speakers for Calabar are: H.E. Liyel Imoke, H.E. Donald Duke, H.E. Onari Duke, H.E. Senator (Prof) Ben Ayade, H.E Obong Victor Bassey Attah, H.E. Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan,
ALSO SEE: 2 to die for stealing N2,500 handbag
Others are: The Rt. Hon. Onofiok Luke, Sen. Ben Bruce, Senator Florence Ita Giwa, Sen. George Thompson Sekibo, Hon. Amb Nkoyo Toyo, Dr. Dakuku Adolphus Peterside, Chief (Barr.) Okoi Obono-Obla, Sen. John Owan Enoh, Sen. Rose Okoji Oko, Hon. Chike Ogeah, Mr. Tonye Patrick Cole, Mr Moses Siasia, Dr. Emmah Gospel Isong, Prince Goodwill Edward, Hon. Patrick Ugbe, Mr John Etim Bassey, Hon. Eric Anderson, Mr Dayo Israel, Mr Fela Durotoye, John Upan Odey, Stanley Nsemo, Hon Mike Etaba, John Etim Bassey, Great Ogban, Prince Godswill Edward and many more.
“The Forum will provide a high-level platform for deliberations on how to create more space for younger people (under 40s) in elected public offices by formulating recommendations that will culminate into sustainable youth friendly policies and regulations.”
The forum will also provide a unique opportunity for youth leaders and aspiring young leaders in Nigeria to network and exchange views on increasing youth participation in the 2019 general election”, says Dayo Israel, the Africa Regional Director of GLEEHD Foundation.
It is being organised by GLEED Foundation and the Commonwealth Africa Initiative will provide a veritable platform for the generation of new Ideas, opportunity for networking, and ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative decision-making at all political levels in Nigeria.
Registration for the Forum is FREE but delegate must register online on www.neplf.gleehdfoundation. org.ng orwww.southsouthneplf. eventbrite.com.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment