Share this on WhatsApp



 
There are indications that there may be scarcity of diesel in some part of the country despite the assurances by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) that it has enough of the product as the yuletide approaches.
According to findings by National Daily, in the last two weeks, there had been serial scarcity of Diesel at several filling stations in parts of Lagos and South West.
It was learnt from most the stations visited that though had jerked up their pump price from N165 to between N195 and N205, many of them had no product to sell.
This is observed few days the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) came out to assure that there will not be experience of fuel queues during this year’s festive season.
Recall that the NNPC in a statement issued by the its spokesperson, Ndu Ughamadu on Wednesday directed its downstream subsidiary, the Petroleum Products Marketing Company, PPMC, to ensure steady supply of petroleum products across the country during the festive periods and well into 2018.
The NNPC in a statement in Abuja, said this charge was given by its Group Managing Director, Mr. Maikanti Baru, during the inauguration of the Board of Directors of PPMC. Baru assured the public that as the festive periods draw near, it would ensure a hitch-free supply of petroleum products nationwide during the season.
ALSO SEE: 2018 budget: A look at its priorities
He said, “The festive season is fast approaching, a period when almost always, people expect queues to happen. If last year you had a queue-free festive season, we want this year’s to be a season where fuel station attendants will be inviting motorists to their stand for fueling.” He urged the management of the PPMC to re-strategize to ensure leaner operating cost that would enable it continuously add value to the NNPC corporate entity, adding that the company was not expected to make losses. 
Similarly, Mr. Umar Ajiya, MD of PPMC, assured that the company would be placed on the part of profitability, adding that other petroleum products would equally be made available alongside Premium Motor Spirit, PMS, also known as petrol. 
Most of the stations spoken said they were still expecting the products as promised by the NNPC as they had to pay heavily to get the little they had.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment