By IFEOMA Ikem

The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Imohimi Edgal has advised a popular musician, Damini Ogiulu popularly known as “Burna Boy” to report at a police station for his own interest over a robbery investigation.

According to Edgal, Ogiulu was mentioned in a robbery incident at an event organized by Buckwild Media at Eko Hotel where Abiye David Jombo, another Nigerian musician popularly known as Mr 2K was attacked after his performance.




He reiterated, “I am using this medium to advise Damini Ogiolu aka Burna Boy to report at the nearest police station as all efforts to locate him at his Lekki residence has proved abortive.

On the 22nd October, after a show organised by Buckwild Media, one Abiye David Jumbo who lodged at Eko Hotel had returned to his room after his performance when he heard a knock on the door.

The voice had introduced himself as room service but when Jumbo opened the door, four men forced themselves into the room. They dispossessed him of valuables worth N11m and tied up the musician and his girlfriend.”


ALSO SEE: World’s first human head transplant successfully carried out


It was learnt that, “During interrogation which involved probing the CCTV camera, a girlfriend of one of the hotel workers was arrested and she led the police to arrest three others persons.



“The gang, however, confessed that one Damini Ogiulu aka “Burna Boy” had contacted them to teach Mr 2K a lesson by beating him up.

“Ogiulu, whom the suspects said paid them N50,000 as upfront also paid another N50,000 after the victim was beaten up,” CP Edgal explained.

The gang leader, one Omokaro Tunmise, revealed that he was called by one Joel, Burna Boy’s Road Manager that there is an incident at Eko Hotel where he met with three other men that beat up Mr 2K.

Joel Kante, Burna Boy Road Manager, however, said that he had not met with any of the suspects and was only arrested being the closest person to ‘Burna Boy” who was at the event.


			
			Post Views: 
			156