Share this on WhatsApp
Attempts by three persons to smuggle prohibited drugs out of the country into an Asian country have been thwarted by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja.

The suspected drug couriers were intercepted at the outward clearance at the Airport, National Daily learnt.

The suspects were identified as John Prince Louis Ifechukwu, Victor Chibuzor Olochukwu Anadu and Omotayo Anifowoshe.

One of the suspects, a 31-year-old Ifechukwu from Ihiala, Anambra State was said to have flew in from Lagos and was intercepted at the Abuja Airport as he was to board his flight to Jarkata, Indonesia.

National Daily gathered that Ifechukwu, before his arrest was a trader who sells female wears in Balogun market at Lagos Lagos.

He had excreted 65 wraps of substances weighing 864 grams out of which only one wrap
tested positive to Methamphetamine while the remaining tested negative to all known drugs.

It was further learnt that he was arrested with Indonesian Trade Fair Visa and an Ethiopia Airline ticket, claiming that he was on his way to Jarkata to bring in female wears and that the trip was facilitated by a friend who linked him with an unknown fellow that handed him the lethal consignment to deliver in Indonesia.

Also, Anadu, a father of four from Oraifite, near Ozobullu, Anambra State was intercepted on his way to Indonesia and excreted 54 wraps weighing 1, 073.4 Kilogram of the suspected substance out of which 700 grams tested positive to Methamphetamine while the remaining 373.4 grams did not test positive to any known drugs.

ALSO SEE: Leaked memo: Groups flay Kyari over attacks on Oyo-Ita

According to Jonah Achema, Principal Staff Officer, Public Affairs, NDLEA said in Lagos on Wednesday that Omotayo Anifowoshe, 37 years old and an indigene of Epe, Lagos State was also arrested as she landed from Lagos and was to connect her flight to South Africa through a short cut linking the local Airport to the International Airport, successfully boycotting security screening point.

He explained, “She was, however, intercepted with two giant bags containing three kilograms of Ephedrine and 1.9 kilograms of Cocaine base. The drugs were concealed in the false bottom and false walls of the bags.

“Anifowoshe confessed that the luggage was handed to her by her fiancé at whose instance was the trip,” he reiterated.

While commending his men for thwarting the drug traffickers plan, Hamisu Lawan, Commander of Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, called for the provision of drug detecting equipment at the Airport while expressing concern over the merger of local and international passengers before the screening point.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment