Leading cosmetics brand, House of Tara International is set to host ‘1000 Voices’, a national beauty entrepreneur summit on the 8th of November, 2017 at the Harbour Point, Victoria Island, Lagos.
The event, which brings together beauty entrepreneurs, retailers, re-sellers, make-up artists, investors and other stakeholders to celebrate entrepreneurial excellence within Nigeria’s beauty space, builds on House of Tara’s 2013 ‘100 Voices’ campaign, which focused on celebrating individuals contributing to the development of the ecosystem, despite the odds.
Over the years, the industry has experienced tremendous growth amidst economic fluctuations due to efforts of pioneers such as House of Tara, leading to an increase in demand and supply of beauty products. House of Tara currently works with over 10,000 beauty entrepreneurs annually, with these individuals massively contributing to the growth of the cosmetics industry.
Speaking during the announcement, Tara Fela-Durotoye, Founder/ CEO, House of Tara International said, “I am always excited when we get to have a large number of our beauty representatives, make-up artists, re-sellers and other stakeholders gathered, all for a collective mission.”
ALSO SEE: Pep’s Barcelona Vs Pep’s Manchester City: Which is better?
“This group of people consistently play important roles in the development of the beauty industry, and this summit provides us the opportunity at House of Tara to engage, share ideas and learn from them. It also always reminds us of the primary reason why we started this business”, she added.
The summit features an impressive line-up of speakers including Ibukun Awosika, Chairman of First Bank; Linda Ikeji, media entrepreneur and Tara Fela-Durotoye, covering diverse topics on social media, finance, branding and makeup, as plenary sessions will also be held with Google Nigeria, First Bank, Bimpe Onakoya of Maybelline, and hosted by social media entrepreneur, Olorisupergal.
The event rounds up with an awards ceremony to recognise individuals helping to create a new reality in the beauty industry.
The summit is supported by MTN, First Bank PLC, Nestle, Google, Fayrouz, MainOne, LSETF, Arik Air, Businessday, Renodio Synergy, Dolps n Bolps, , Linda Ikeji TV, EbonyLife TV, Olori Supergirl, GiGM.com, Baby Lounge, Greater Washington, TDegree, Levitate Creative, Golden Horse Cosmetics, Maybelline, among others.