Share this on WhatsApp







A coalition of advocacy groups under the aegis of Eastern Niger Delta Coalition, has petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari over plots to extend the tenure of Nsima Ekere as Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).

The coalition in the petition to Buhari dated November 9 2017 and jointly signed by Alali Bokutengo; Miebaka Harrison Nsan Ebirien and Cordelia Etuk-Udo, entitled: “Protest against the purported extension of the tenure of the present Chairman and Managing Director of NDDC) Board”, complained the so-called extension was not only morally wrong, but also does not stand on any legal high ground.

They alleged that cabals in the Presidency collected $500 million bribe on behalf of the cabals include the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, and the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mallam Abaubakar Malami (SAN). They, however, did not provide proof to their allegations.

“The so-called extension is not only morally wrong, it does not also stand on any legal high ground. It is insinuated that the said elongation coup was originated through a legal memo by the AGF, Abubakar Malami (SAN). This whole exercise is offensive and contrary to the extant/explicit provisions of the relevant sections of the NDDC Act, the Coalition argued.

The group, therefore, issued the NDDC board December 5 deadline within which it should be terminated.

The coalition had emphasized that tenure of Nsima Udo Ekere as Managing Director and Chief Executive of the NDDC, had elapsed, noting that his appointment letter obtained from the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) on Thursday, confirmed it.

They highlighted that the appointment letter dated November 1 2016, with Ref. No: SGF.55/S.2/C.3/IV/52, signed by the sacked former SGF, Babachir David Lawal; reads: “I am pleased to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 

Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, has approved your appointment as Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), following your confirmation by the Senate on Tuesday October 11 2016 in accordance with Sections 2(2) a and 12 (1) (c) of the NDDC (Establishment) Act 2000.

“The appointment took effect from November 1 2016 and you are to serve out the remainder of the term of office of your predecessor in line with Section 5(2) of the Act.






ALSO SEE: 15 killed in Lagos multiple accidents


“Your emoluments and other conditions of service are as provided under the “Certain Political, Public and Judicial Office Holders (Salaries and Allowances, etc) (Amendment) Act 2008.”

“Please accept my congratulations on your appointment.”

The coalition argued that document has, therefore, ended the speculations on the allegations that there were plans by the cabals in the Presidency to elongate his tenure and that of the NDDC Board Chairman.  

Our investigation revalued that the President has the power to re-appoint Nsima Ekere, MD of NDDC, for a substantive term after serving out the tenure of the past regime. This, the protesters did not put into consideration, or they may deliberately be limiting the powers of the President.   







Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment