Share this on WhatsApp



Postmaster General of the Federation and head of Nigerian Post office (NIPOST), Bisi Adegbuyi, has finally confessed that the greatest challenge to the relevance of NIPOST is in the area of product offering.
Speaking at a recent retreat of the agency in Kaduna, he said “For a long time NIPOST has remained a mono-product organization focusing mainly on mail and even that too is challenging.”
He was upbeat that the NIPOST zonal strategic management retreat will help determine the true position of NIPOST strategic milestones in the journey towards actualization of the set objective.
According to him, “The retreat will provide us with the opportunity to x-ray our position as we analyze our performance so far against set objectives with a view to taking remedial measures in the area of sharp deviations and as well re-invest a new wheel where necessary in our march to the promise land.
“In the last five months of uninterrupted strategy implementation, a lot has happened, the corporate restructuring is taking shape, the business units are reshaping their products, the zones are now on ground supported by their districts while the Chief Operating Officer has taken full control of the operations for efficiency.
Earlier in the life of the present government, the Minister of Communications, Barr Adebayo Shittu assured Nigerians that he has concluded plans to turn NIPOST to a digital banking agency considering the natural spread of the agency.
However, more than half way to the end of the administration, the Minister is now keeping sealed lips on all his plans on NIPOST.
ALSO SEE: Naira remains stable as CBN injects additional $195m
Looking for headway at the Kaduna retreat, director, Strategy and Business Development, Mallam Abdulrahim Baba, said the post office can help farmers and small businesses scale up their production by repackaging their products so that they can acquire market instead of letting their products rot away.
According to him, “NIPOST will put internet facilities and computers in our rural post offices so that the children living in the rural areas can learn how to use the computer and the internet because presently, the computer and internet is used in all sectors.”
Currently, NIPOST has seven different businesses from the one that was available in the past.
NIPOST has also cut down from 36 territories to seven zones to conserve resources and provide good services to our customers in a bid to create a new playing field.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment