Share this on WhatsApp
A Briton kidnapped in Delta, Nigeria, has been killed by his abductors, according U.K’s The Guardian.

The death, the paper said, has been confirmed on Monday by the UK Foreign Office.

The 56-year-old, Ian Squire, was one of four British charity workers kidnapped from the rural community of Enekorogha on October 13.

Squire was an optician working with a Christian health charity, the New Foundations, to train local people to carry out sight tests and dispense prescription spectacles.

The New Foundations opened an eye clinic in Enekorogha in 2016.

Squire was said to have developed a solar-powered, portable lens-grinding machine for the clinic, which is said to be located in an area without electricity.

The late Squire was said to have set up his own charity, Mission for Vision, in 2003, and had been travelling to Nigeria since 2013 in a joint effort with New Foundations.

The circumstances surrounding his death were not immediately clear.

Other missionaries abducted were David Donovan, a General Practitioner from Cambridge, said to be the founder of the New Foundations; Mr. Donovan’s wife, Shirley; and Alanna Carson, an optometrist from Leven, Fife.

ALSO SEE: Nigeria is not an oil economy

The three were released and have reunited with their families outside Nigeria.

“We are supporting the families of four British people who were abducted on 13 October in Nigeria, one of whom was tragically killed,’ the paper quoted an unnamed source in the UK Foreign Office as saying,

“This has clearly been a traumatic time for all concerned, and our staff will continue to do all we can to support the families. We are grateful to the Nigerian authorities, and are unable to comment given the ongoing nature of their investigations.”

The paper also published a statement issued by the families of the four hostages.

“Alanna, Ian, David and Shirley were kidnapped in Nigeria some three weeks ago. We are grateful for the support received by the British high commission and help from the Nigerian authorities in negotiating their release,” the families said.

“We are delighted and relieved that Alanna, David and Shirley have returned home safely. Our thoughts are now with the family and friends of Ian as we come to terms with his sad death.”

Squire’s Mission for Vision, in its filing in the UK, said it was in the process of training three healthcare workers in the Delta.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment