Share this on WhatsApp
Hauwa Dadi, an SS1 student of the Brighter Academy Secondary School, Gashua, Jos, abducted to be married off regained her freedom on Sunday after four days in hostage.

The 13-year-old is the daughter of a former Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria.

She was abducted and allegedly kept at the palace of the Emir of Gashua for ‘Islamic evangelism.’

Hauwa was, however, released on Sunday from the palace of the Emir, Alhaji Abubakar Suleman thanks to a civil rights organisation, Stefanos Foundation, which vowed to pursue the case till the girl was released.

The Executive Director of SF, Mark Lipdo, had then appealed to the relevant authorities “to step in and help this poor woman

The Christian community and Evangelical Church Winning All in the Bade Local Government Area of Yobe State was a little agitated following the abduction of the teenager.

The Gashua Police Area Commander, Joseph Aloefuna, confirmed that the case was brought to his knowledge by the Gashua Divisional Police Officer.

“There was this boy who was said to have insisted on marrying the girl (Hauwa). They are in the same school. The matter was reported to the school management and the boy was punished and warned to stop harassing the girl,” Aloefuna said.

ALSO SEE: Kaduna to replace teachers who failed primary four exam

“Later, the girl was abducted and the boy was the prime suspect. The boy was arrested but claimed that the girl ran to the Emir’s palace because she wanted to convert to Islam.”

“The Emir took her to the Chief Imam; the Chief Imam said the girl was scared but he was asked to take her to the welfare officials instead of keeping her in his custody.

“We took the statement of everybody concerned. The Chief Imam said there was going to be a meeting on the matter,” Aloefuna explained.

But the account was different from the Hadi’s mother’s.

According to her, the boy had been claiming he loved the girl.

The mother said she went to look for her daughter that went to fetch water that afternoon. 

Then she heard the girl had been abducted by her neighbours and was taken to the Imam of Gashua, Babu Alkali Mamman.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment