Share this on WhatsApp



The Executive members of the South East Crime Reporters Corps and that of Enugu State Correspondents Chapel have commended the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 82 Division, Major General Adamu Baba Abubakar for creating an enabling environment for lawful economic and social activities in the South Eastern States of Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo.
The Chairman of Crime Reporters Corps, Mr Onyeabuchi Teta stated this on Tuesday while paying a visit to the GOC.
Teta said that “We are here to commend the Chief of Army Staff, GOC and all the personnel of 82 Division for the wonderful job you are doing in the South East in the areas of peace and security development.
ALSO SEE: Ogun police arrest herbalist with fake currencies
They also commended the Nigerian Army under the leadership of the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai for the relative peace and security been enjoyed in the entire South Eastern part of Nigeria.
On his part, the Chairman Correspondents Chapel Enugu State, Mr Nweze Emmanuel congratulated the GOC for the successful conduct of Exercise EGWU EKE 11, which provided peaceful and secured environment for the success of Anambra State Gubernatorial elections which held last Saturday.
“Your efforts in taming troops from polling stations and any form of political engagement, warding off criminals, political thugs and disgruntled elements to the peace, security and success of the election. We urge you to continue with the good work”.
In his brief remarks, General Abubakar thanked them for the visit, and urged them to continue to be objective in their reportage of the activities of the Division in and out of conflict situations.
On objectivity, the GOC tasked the media to always investigate issues before they print to minimise errors and misconception that could have been avoided.
Present at the occasion were the Commanders 54 Signal Brigade and Supply and Transport  Brigadier Generals Wilson Ali and EA Anariyo, Commanders Military Intelligence Brigade and Finance and Accounts Colonels K Nwoko and MK  Joktan among others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment