By Odunewu Segun
The cries of a new born child has always been a thing of joy for parents, it symbolizes the beginning of a new life, but this was not so for the parents of six-month old Erioluwa Abdulrasak Lawal. His painful piecing cries has always been a constant sorrow to his mother.
His now dejected mother, Oluwaseyi Lawal, said she had sold all she has in other to raise money for the first phase of a correctional surgery put at over N750, 000. She is now appealing to Nigerians to come to her aid in rescuing little Erioluwa from his pains.
Little Erioluwa was born with a swollen abdomen that completely covered his genitals, preventing him from urinating as normal kids do. Anytime the call of nature calls, Erioluwa was always in pains.
The pathetic story of little Daramola started when the mother, Mrs. Oluwaseyi Lawal delivered him at Wisdom Private Hospital, Alabgado, Ogun State on the 3rd of May, 2017.
At birth, the deformity was discovered, and little Erioluwa was referred to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). They stayed there for several day, hoping against all hopes that they would be able to raise the money needed for a correctional surgery.
His father, who had since abandoned both mother and child was told the child would need about N500, 000 to initiate the surgery process which was in three phases.
Following the high cost other treatments including X-ray and Scan which both parent could not afford, they were reportedly detained for days in the hospital such that when it became obvious to the hospital authorities that they were indigent and helpless, they decided to discharge them.
Since Little Erioluwa was born, he has not been bathed due to the nature of the growth. According to the mother, a petty trader, she was advised not to allow water to touch the spot that has now become bloated as this could be catastrophic for the child.
Explaining her plights to National Daily, Mrs. Oluwaseyi Lawal, said little Erioluwa has not ceased crying since he was given birth to six months ago. She said she had become homeless as her husband had absconded.
“This is my first child, initially when I gave birth to him, the father also tried to raise but when the money became too much for him to bear, he advised that I took the child to a motherless children home. When I refused, he abandoned us and we have not seen him since,” Oluwaseyi lamented
The 37-year old dejected mother said she had sold all she has to get medical help for little Erioluwa, her only child, but said the amounts could only defrayed the costs of drugs, and a far cry from the N500,000 needed for a complete surgery.
Now she said she begged just to eat, and could not afford the N500, 000 thousand needed for the phase surgery to correct the deformity.
She is however appealing to kind spirited people and organisations, governments and churches all over the world to come to her aid financially and help save little Erioluwa.
According to her, though the aid of people around her, she has been able to open an account in the boy’s name with the intention of using whatever she could raise from good spirited Nigerians to save little Erioluwa from his agonizing pains.
The account, opened with Stanbic Bank is Erioluwa Abdulrasak Lawal with account number- 0004749825. Erioluwa’s mother number is 08027772005.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			88