Share this on WhatsApp



A shocking revelation has emerged from the African Development Bank (AfDB), showing that Nigeria and several African skies are full of too many old and inefficient airplanes.
The bank further noted that the scenario has therefore tagged the continent, the riskiest of skies to fly in.
Africa currently accounts for only 3.4 per cent of all flight departures, represents over nine per cent of all air accidents, and 37 per cent of total global air fatalities.
President of AfDB and Nigeria’s former Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, who stated this at the third International Civil Aviation Organisation’s (ICAO) World Aviation Forum (WAF) in Abuja, rolled out figures showing that among the 200 airlines blacklisted by the European Union, more than 50 per cent operates in Africa and Nigeria in particular.
According to him, “These are shocking and non-acceptable numbers. If you’ve actually flown in some aircraft in Africa, you’ll pray before you get in, pray while you are in and you hold on to your seat very tightly; and when they say there is a turbulence, you begin to wonder what is going to happen. That is just because we have too many old and inefficient planes that are flying.
“We must have newer and better maintained planes that fly in Africa. The challenge, however, has to do with financing. If you look at the trajectory of what will happen in terms of the need that Africa has in the aviation industry, over the next 20 years, Africa needs to mobilise $150bn just to finance aircraft.”
ALSO SEE: Nigeria’s TV content most sought after in Africa now — NBC DG, Kawu
Continuing, Adesina argued that “That is why ease of access via air travel is strongly correlated to economic growth. Air transport promotes trade, investments and tourism, and boosts economic growth. Today, Africa’s aviation industry adds $73bn to the continent’s annual GDP and employs about seven million people – an average 130,000 people per country in Africa. And that’s a lot!
“With rapidly increasing population, urbanisation and income growth for the middle class, the aviation industry is projected to grow by five per cent annually for the next 20 years. From serving 120 million passengers in 2015, the industry will triple and serve over 300 million passengers by 2035. That’s the good news!”
Besides and added to the poor maintenance culture and observed old age of aircrafts, AfDB boss adduced that the cost of air travel in Africa was exorbitantly high and was 200 per cent more than in the European Union and 250 per cent higher than in India for similar distances.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment