Share this on WhatsApp







By Idebaneria Cynthia
The Nigerian Army on Tuesday said it’s troops had killed 14 Boko Haram insurgents in clearance operations in Bama Local Government Area of Borno.Borno
Brig.- Gen. Sani Kukasheka, Director Army Public Relations, said this in a statement issued in Maiduguri.
Kukasheka said that the troops also rescued 30 persons, captured one insurgent and recovered various caliber of ammunition from the insurgents.
He said that the troops had also cleared insurgents in their hideouts at Abusuriwa, Newchina, Bonzon, Usmanari, Goyayeri, Shitimari, Gash Imani and Awaram villages in Bama local government area.
Kukasheka explained that 8 insurgents were killed while many of them escaped in the affected villages, adding that three males; 12 females and 15 children were rescued from the insurgents.
The army spokesman also disclosed that the troops also ambushed and killed six insurgents at Kumshe and Darel-Jamel villages.
According to him, the arrested insurgent was handed over to the appropriate authorities for intonation.
“Troops of 202 Battalion of 21 Brigade Nigerian Army in Conjunction with elements of Mobile Strike Teams (MSTs) on Operations LAFIYA DOLE, in furtherance of clearance and blockade Operation DEEP PUNCH II, on Saturday Nov. 25, 2017, cleared Boko Haram terrorists’ enclaves in Abusuriwa, Newchina, Bonzon, Usmanari, Goyayeri, Shitimari, Gashimari and Awaram amongst other villages in Bama Local Government Area of Borno.
ALSO SEE: You’re a murderer, Falana replies Gov. Fayose
“The troops whose continuous resolve in routing out the remnants of the suspected terrorists hibernating within the Brigade’s Area of Responsibility ensured that their superior fire power made the terrorists to flee in disarray, leading to the capture of one suspected terrorist while eight Boko Haram terrorists were neutralised.
“The gallant troops recovered four AK-47 rifles, three magazines, seven Dane guns, machetes, amongst other items.
“In addition, the troops also rescued three men, 12 women and 15 Children, among whom were an aged man and a woman held captives by the Boko Haram terrorists.
“The suspected terrorist has been handed over to the relevant authorities for further interrogation, while the rescued civilian captives are being attended to.
“Similarly, troops of 152 Battalion of the Brigade deployed as a blocking force at the Forward Operations Base, Kumshe, to aid a successful clearance operation ambushed some fleeing unsuspecting Boko Haram terrorists and neutralised five fleeing terrorists, while troops of 151 Battalion also deployed at the Forward Operations Base, Darel Jamel, neutralised a terrorist in an ambush”.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment