Share this on WhatsApp



The Federal Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, has urged Nigerian youths to use their potential for national development.
He made this call when a group of youths led by Mr Murtala Garba, the President of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) visited him in his office.
Onu said the ministry would support any youth, who was ready to make significant contributions towards the growth of the national economy.
“There is the need for us to groom the young population in their efforts to contribute to the economy because the youth can translate into strength for national development.
“We will make sure that we secure our future by empowering our youth and give them responsibilities that will bring out the best in them.
ALSO SEE: FG tasks youths on national development
“Nigeria is a young nation, not because we are 100 years old but 38 per cent of the population is below 18 years.
“We believe that when we centre our economy on the available human capital, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will improve significantly.
“We should aim at not only to become the largest economy in Africa but also one of the largest economies in the world,” he said.
The minister promised the group of his maximum support for the council’s forthcoming programme, tagged: Lets Go Bring the Change,” initiative.
According to him, if the youth are trained and equipped, Nigeria will be a great nation and will be in a better position to use natural resources to create wealth for the people.
“The Ministry of Science and Technology will be willing and able to support the youth to achieve their goals,” he said.
Earlier, Garba, the leader of the group, pleaded with the minister to assist the council in executing its ‘Lets Go Bring the Change’ initiative.
According to him, the programme is meant to provide electricity, boreholes and good roads among others in the rural areas.
He also said that the inter-ethnic seminar and youth empowerment programme, which had been scheduled to take place soon would start in Imo.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment