Share this on WhatsApp

A patrol team of 144 Battalion of 14 Brigade Nigerian Army on Sunday rescued a pastor identified as Barrister Michael Okwundu Onyeka.


The rescue came to fore barely 48 hours after he was kidnapped by unidentified gunmen.

According to the Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, 82 Division, Colonel Sagir Musa, in a statement in Enugu on Monday explained how army personnel rescued the pastor and busted drug other syndicates and outlawed IPOB members.

“Our men combed the bushes of Ngboko General area on Sunday the 12th of November 2017 where the pastor was successfully rescued.”

He pointed out that soon after the General Overseer of Victorious Peoples Assembly, Aba Branch, Barrister Michael Okwundu Onyeka was kidnapped on Friday the 10th of November 2017, they got a tip off from a good Samaritan indicating the possible location where he was held.

“No arrest was made as the culprits run away before the arrival of the troops. Efforts are being made to apprehend them.

“Similarly, a joint patrol team of 145 Battalion Rear and some personnel of the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency, (NDLEA) had based on credible Intelligence, raided identified hard drugs black spots in Umuahia axis on Saturday.

“Large quantity of substances suspected to be cocaine and indian hemp were recovered, and three suspects were arrested.

“The suspects and the exibits have been handedover to NDLEA for further action.




ALSO SEE: Sergeant kills army Captain, self in Chibok


In a related development, three suspected members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) group have been apprehended for allegedly distributing and sharing leaflets and flyers found in their possession with the inscription “No Election in Anambra State.”

They were said to be apprehended by 144 Battalion patrol team at Alaoji Fly Over, Aba General area on Sunday the 12th of November 2017.

Col Musa added that preliminary investigation revealed that those arrested are Mr Chidiebere Nwaona, 35, Mr Nwagbougwu Okeke, 55, and Mr John Nwaogazi, 50.

He reiterated that the suspects, leaflets and flyers have been handed over to State Security  Services Abia State Command for further action.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment