Share this on WhatsApp

A housewife in Ibadan has told a Mapo Customary Court that her husband is a criminal, a serial pickpocket. She wants the marriage dissolved.

“I did not know I was married to a thief,” Mary narrated.




The woman, who has been married to the Ibadan-based businessman, Mr Ibrahim Gbadamosi, for 20 years explained that she was deceived into marrying him.

Mary added, “Neither Ibrahim nor his friends told me that he was a criminal until he was jailed at Ile-Oluji in Ondo State.

“There was a time I sold some of my property to secure his bail until I got to know that he was a serial pickpocket.

“My Lord, Ibrahim is yet to pay my bride price, and he has no right to claim that I am his wife.”

Surprisingly, Gbadamosi, who had filed a petition before a Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan sought for the dissolution of the marriage on the ground of infidelity and attempting to kidnap him.

Marry added: “I never knew what he was doing for a very long time and I became very uncomfortable with his lifestyle.

“All I knew was that security operatives used to come and arrest him and his friends used to run from one place to another to gather money for his release.”



ALSO SEE: Lagos appoints SLGS, Supervisors of 57 local councils



Describing the wife as a “prostitute”, Ibrahim regretted that his wife’s situation degenerated to the extent that the landlord’s younger brother impregnated her and had been sleeping with her ever since.

“Moreover, Mary usually lunch attacks on me with the intention of inflicting bodily injuries or even terminating my life.

“As if that was not enough, Mary and our first child conspired to kidnap my child given birth to by my second wife.

“The matter was reported at the police station where they were both made to sign an undertaking never to involve in kidnapping again,” he said.

The President of the court, Mr. Ademola Odunade, while adjourned the case to November 28, and asked the couple to continue to be of good behaviour.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment