Nigeria is said to have lost a whopping N30 trillion of export revenue to the crash in oil prices in the last two years.
Executive Director, Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Olusegun Awolowo disclosed this at a one day NEPC, RVO, CBI Export Roundtable and Exhibition on Export Competency Development programme in Abuja.
According to him, last month, the national economic management team established the national committee on export promotion to ensure effective coordination of the zero oil plan in the 36 states of the federation.
He said: “Nigeria must replace these lost export revenues in order to sustain economic growth, stabilise the naira, sustain federal and state government income and boost employment.
ALSO SEE: N1 billion appearance allowance: Jonathan, Metuh at war
“There is an urgency to ramp up non-oil exports, as our future earnings from crude oil which is facing significant headwinds. This is elevated as the financial outlook on crude oil weakens day by day and poses increasing threat on oil dependent economy just like Nigeria. We are at a critical point in Nigeria’s history which requires bold and decisive action to restructure and reposition our economy to survive without oil.
“The council’s goal is to grow Nigeria’s non-oil export revenue from N1.5trillion per annum to N5trillion within three to four years, and over N10trillion over the longer term. The economic consequences are dire for our country to keep crude oil as its primary source of export revenue. There is too much oil supply and shrinking demand.
“The zero plan has been included as a central part of Nigeria economic recovery plan. The three products under the export competency development pilot scheme are among the 22 in the zero oil plan.
“Our export outlook in 2017 shows some positive developments. A lot of cashew plantation with jumbo varieties are springing up, from a raw cashew production of about 150,000tons to 15,000 tons are processed ii Nigeria which is just 10 per cent. We see enormous potential in processing.

			
			PV: 
			0