Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, on Tuesday, presided over the swearing-in of a new Permanent Secretary, Mrs. Fiyinfoluwa Adenike Ogunbanke, with a call on her to bring leadership, hard work and professionalism to bear in her service to the State and Lagosians in general.

The Governor, who spoke at a brief but impressive swearing-in ceremony, held at the Conference Room, Lagos House in Alausa, said he was satisfied with the progress the State has made so far, noting, however that there was always room for improvement.

“As it is said, the only room that is never closed is the room of improvement.  I will therefore continue to demand improved performance particularly from the top echelon of the Public Service with regard to the pace at which we currently operate.

“You must continue to show leadership and direction for others to follow.  In this way, we will sustain our unity of purpose and focus towards delivering the dividends of good governance to all our people,” he said.

The Governor said the vision of his administration was being implemented through the various ongoing reforms in critical sectors including transportation, education, environment, justice delivery system and tourism, adding that it was the responsibility of the Public Service to ensure that these reforms are diligently implemented in a way that the desired intention is achieved.

Congratulating the new Permanent Secretary on her well-deserved appointment, Governor Ambode expressed optimism that she would bring her widely acknowledged sterling qualities of hard work, dedication and professionalism to bear on the Public Service and by extension, his administration.

ALSO SEE: See how Osinbajo makes access to credit facilities easy

“It is always a thing of joy to be elevated to a position of honour especially that of a Permanent Secretary in Lagos State.  I know this much because I had experienced the joy of this occasion some years back. Once again, I congratulate Mrs. Ogunbanke, her family and friends with whom she is sharing the joy of this moment,” the Governor said.

He said the appointment of Mrs. Ogunbanke, brings to 38, the number of substantive Directors that had been elevated to the position of Permanent Secretary in the last two years. 

In her vote of assurance, Ogunbanke thanked Governor Ambode for the opportunity given to her to serve in the highest capacity in the Civil Service, assuring that she would be dedicated and committed to duty.

“I am sensing this more as a rare opportunity and privilege. I assure you sir of my total commitment and loyalty to the objectives of government,” she said.