Share this on WhatsApp
By OKOSUN DENNIS

A Nigerian based in the United States of America has confessed how some policemen in Lagos sold three rifles to him.

He was found with three-pump action rifles after been arrested by the Area D Command, Mushin, on Tuesday for illegally possessing a Beretta pistol.

The 52-year-old man identified as Ailabojie Aikpaojie, was on Friday paraded before newsmen at the Headquarters, Lagos State Police command in Ikeja.

National Daily gathered that the suspect was arrested for illegally possessing firearms allegedly sold to him by some policemen who work at the Lagos State Police Command but didn’t not disclose their names.

According to the police, Aikpaojie was apprehended about 3pm on June 22, at block 52, plot 19m, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos.

The police further disclosed that he was arrested with a Parabellium Baretta pistol with nine 9mm live ammunition. He could not give a satisfactory account of where he got them from.

“Another search in his house led to the recovery of three long single barrel pump action guns with 250 cartridges. The suspect would soon be charged to court for unlawful possession of firearms.”

Aikpaojie, while explaining how he got the firearms said, he bought the pistol in USA and brought it to Nigeria in error while shipping some personal effects.

Aikpaojie, however stated that the three pump action rifles were sold to him by some policemen attached to the Command Headquarters, while he bought the ammunition from the Command’s armourer.

ALSO SEE: Traditional ruler nab over murder of police inspector

He said: “I don’t know why the police are parading me like a common criminal. I applied to the force for three rifles. The officers who facilitated the purchase of the riffles called the seller and he came to meet us at the Command Headquarters, Ikeja.

“He sold each one for N150, 000. The police asked me to apply for police permit for the rifles which I did. They gave me the permit and I went away with the three rifles.

He further explained that he bought the rifles because of crisis in his village hence he deemed it imperative to arm himself in order not to be taken by surprise.

On the kind of business he does, Aikpaojie disclosed that he was into haulage. “Whenever I am in the country and travel to the village, I often go with some policemen.

“I bought the pistol found on me in the US. I am an American citizen; I mistakenly shipped the pistol found on me on the day I was arrested along with some personal effects.

“I came into Nigeria nine days ago. I found the pistol tucked under a sofa in my house in Lagos and I was on my way to the station to find out from the police what to do with it. If I can keep it or not.

“What happened was that I stopped over somewhere at Mushin to buy plantain and I did not know that the Area Commander was standing behind me and was asking me to stop. As I made to reverse my car, some policemen pounced on me.

“It was then they found the pistol strapped to my trouser. They asked me all manner of questions and I told them how I got it. They took me to my house where they found the other three guns, I have valid license for the three rifles. The Area Commander had taken the license from me.”

“I am just amazed that the same Nigerian policeman that facilitated the purchase of the guns, ammunition and gave me the permit to posses them are acting very funny. This is terrible,” he reiterated.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment