After months of rigorous search to arrest one of the most notorious kidnap kingpin in the country,  the Nigerian Police is heaving a sigh of relief as Chukwudi Dumeme Onuamadike, aka Evans. has been arrested.

The 36-year-old man, a father of five children, hails from Umudim Village, Nnewi North Local Government Area of Anambra State.

He has been described to be the richest kidnapper after raking in over N1.132 billion from various high-profile individuals he had kidnapped in the last few years.

National Daily learnt that Chukwudi was responsible for the kidnapping of one Mbarikatta William Uboma, 35, on the 16th June, 2012 about 11 am after the victim arrived from Hungary.

He was said to have been kidnapped close to his house while riding in his Toyota Car 2010 model in company of his brother when he was blocked with a Passat car.

Mbarikatta was said to have been blindfolded and forcefully taken to an unknown destination. They later collected N2m as ransom in addition to other personal accessories collected from him.

He regained his freedom three days later after being dropped off at Okota.

However, the notoriety of the kingpin was extended to one Paul Cole, a 34-year-old man from Ohafia in Abia State.

Until he was abducted, Cole was a Director with Ocean Glory Commodities, Apapa. He was kidnapped on 3rd August, 2012 at Festac Town together with his General Manager, Jude Ugoje and another staff, Piriye Gogo, and taken to an unknown destination.

It was gathered that three days later, the notorious gang demanded for N10m but got paid N5m on August 6th 2012, at Maza-maza area of Lagos State.

Chukwudi, who was arrested by the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team, (IRT) inside his bedroom, in the Magodo area of Lagos, was also figured as responsible for the abduction of Lebanese Mohammed Jamal, on August 19, 2012 in Ajah.

The suspect milked the family of N7m ransom which was said to have been paid at Ojo Barracks.

Police also disclosed that Chukwudi spread his tentacles to the doorsteps of Kingsley Nwokenta, 34, who was kidnapped on the 19th September 19, 2012 after he left Lebanana Bar in Festac.

The victim secured his freedom after he parted with N1.5m ransom after making away with his black Toyota Venza and other accessories.

Other victims of the notorious kingpin who was said to have masterminded the kidnap attempt in 2013 on the owner of The Young Shall Grow Motors, included Anthony Ozoanidobi, 41, kidnapped in 10th October, 2012, along Marwa road Satellite Town and was rewarded with N1.5m ransom.

Others are: “Leo Abraham 58, kidnapped on the 20th August, 2012 ransom of N5m and was later released along Badagry road, Lagos.

“Ojukwu Cosmas, 45, a Toyota parts dealer at Aspanda Trade Fair. He was Kidnapped 21st January, 2016 at Festac Town. Till date, no one can categorically say how he was released.

Before he was arrested on Friday, the Nigerian Police had put a reward of N30m for anyone that can give a clue to his arrest.

As his notoriety spread and sent jitters in the spine of police officers, Chukwudi kidnapped James Uduji. close to his house at 7th Avenue Festac in 2016.

The victim was held incommunicado for six weeks until he got a whooping  $1m before he was set free.

Chief Raymond Okoye – Odu- Na –Ichida, also paid $1m as ransom after been held captive for two months.

National Daily also gathered that Uche Okoroafor, a trader at Alaba International market in Ojo was kidnapped in 2015, held captive for three months, and parted with $1m.

Elias Ukachukwu was kidnapped in November 2015 and paid $1m but they were said to have insisted on another $1M claiming family members were rude to them during negotiation.

It was further gathered that one Francis Umeh, a spare parts dealer at Aspanda, was also kidnapped on July 2016 at Raji Rasaki Estate, released after two months in captivity.

However, Chukwudi who was said to be ruthless when it comes to collecting ransom also abducted one Mr Danatus Dunu at Ilupeju in February 2017.

After negotiation and collected N150m from the family, he insisted on collection N500m until the victim miraculously escaped last month.

Before his arrest, it was learnt, Chukwudi was set to travel to South Africa.

He had an expensive phones valued at $6,000 was recovered from him.

			
			PV: 
			0