By Lanre Adesanya
The Eid-il-fitri celebration got to a climax in Lagos zone 2 of Nasril-Lahi-L-Fatih Society, NASFAT, as it organizes maiden edition of Eid-il-fitri children funfair for branches under the zone.
Fun seekers expressed satisfaction as they wish this continues annually,Speaking with newsmen, some of the fun seekers noted that,they were surprised at the huge turnout in spite of the economic situation of the country.
Hajia Rukayat Adejumo, empowerment secretary, Nasfat, Abule Egba, who came with her children, to the Anwar-il-Islam school Ahmadiyah venue of the programme said that she was at the funfair to enjoy herself with her family in the spirit of the sallah.
“I also want to use this medium to congratulate all NASFAT, members in my branch and other branches for the successful completion of the Ramadan fasting period.
” This NASFAT funfair is filled with great fun, you can see our children, parents having fun with various Islamic games and people are enjoying themselves.” She said.
The Chairman Local Organizing Committee, NASFAT Children Funfair 2017 Maiden edition who is also the chairman NASFAT Alakuko/Alagbado branch Barrister Hakeem Salami while speaking with newsmen said it is the Maiden edition organized by NASFAT Lagos Zone 2 which comprises of 12 branches, Alakuko/Alagbado, Iyana Ipaja, Jankara/Ojokoro, Dopemu/Agege, Iju/Oko-Oba, Oke-Odo Pipeline, Abule-Egba, Meiran, Ajasa, Bada/Ayobo and Alagbado-Akute respectively.

“We have put in place various games for our children and families to have fun after the one month Ramadan spiritual exercise.”
Speaking on the current controversy around the society, he said, Nasfat is one and will remain united across the globe as he reiterated that the crowd at the funfair is an attestation to the unity of the society.
Ustaz AbdulKabir Popoola Member, Mission Board, NASFAT, Iyana Ipaja branch, in his comment said resources gathered for this Free Funfair organized by NASFAT, was gathered through cash donations, materials and kind by members of the society .
NASFAT chairman Abule-Egba branch, Alhaji Moh’d Taofeeq AbdulSalam, said the imbroglio ravaging the branch had since been resolved and the branch is forever united and strong.
“We now have a new missioner who is in charge of the affairs of the society in the branch and our weekly Asalat still holds at the same venue ,our membership strength is on the increase.” Abdulsalam said.
The funfair features Islamic singers, bouncing castles, swimming, face painting, quiz and Qur’anic competitions.

			
			Post Views: 
			90