Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
The G13 of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Surulere Local Government have frowned at the alleged imposition masterminded by Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, the Majority Leader, currently representing the Surulere Federal constituency in the Federal House of Representatives, citing clear cut disregard for the party’s National Leader instruction toward salvaging the comatose polity of Surulere.
The group noted that the legislator in the green chamber of the NASS deliberately stationed his stooge one Mr.Sulaimon Yusuf for the vice chairmanship position in Surulere contrary to the party’s directive at the stakeholders meeting held in the month of May.
Where having stated that 18 former executive chairmen would return,the National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu added that the people who are contestants should be given first choice of refusal as it pertains to sharing of the remaining positions in the affected areas.
A topshot in the area’s polity Hon. Afeez Kasumu “We are talking to our supporters in the local government to calm down they want to go to the street but we are telling them to calm down everything would be under control,so we have reached out to the party leadership and I am sure they are going to do something about it.
“We agree to anchor the election of Hon. Tajudeen Ajide to appease our supporters and give the party confidence that there is peace in Surulere,while doing that Hon Femi Gbajabiamila went behind to pick Sulaimon his stooge as vice chairmanship for the local government and it is also looking someone outside the frontliners seated here as the secretary to the local government,against the advise of the National leader.
“We would not allow someone that was there for three years out of which he was under the three running helter skelter,that is where his office was as a vice chairman,coming such a man to be a vice chairman again what did Surulere people benefit from him earlier?
“A clear position  is that in the last dispensation whereas Ajide was the chairman, Sulaimon was the vice and all through the three years at the local government Sulaimon in concert with about seven other councillors made the council ungovernable,from the beginning they had wanted to impeach the chairman with one allegation or the other,most of which are frivolous,he in concert with about three or four coming back to   the council now ganged up and ensure that  the government couldn’t achieve anything,it was a loss to everyone so such an individual should not be brought back into government,it means we will be at negative.
“The essence of this meeting is to say no to further impunity by Femi Gbajabiamila that is turning himself to an imperial majesty in Surulere,they have allowed for a long time but this is the end of the era.
One of the stakeholders,Dotun Olaribigbe decried the highhandedness of Femi in the area,stating that further impunity will be resisted.
“We are no idiots or imbeciles here,Femi Gbajabiamila as far I’m concerned is the number one public enemy of Surulere,the council being the closest tier of government to the people one individual having sold a dummy to the National leader is claiming glory for what he is not,when the chips are down he is a nonentity,he cannot win an election,he is getting high on his supply carried away by the euphoria.
ALSO SEE: PDP/Labour alignment a ruse – Aeroland
“What a callous impunity,how can you singlehandedly pick your stooge to return to the council as vice chairman having bought sowing machines for people who don’t know how to sow and fish drying machine as poverty alleviation.He is deceiving Tinubu giving him the wrong impression about Surulere, Tinubu would now start seeing the true picture of things.

Supporters of the G13 also staged a peaceful protest to the APC secretariat along Adelabu Street Surulere,to demand that the party supremacy be presevered by political bigots,it eventually turned violent as they were seen throwing away the pictures of notable individuals hung in the party secretariat starting with Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila.
The aspirants that jostled for the chairmanship seat of Surulere,before party decided that Ajide be returned includes the underlisted:

Afeez Olaseinde Kasumu

2. Ganiat Alli Balogun
3. Segun Aborishade
4. Dapo Dabiri
5. Dotun Olaribigbe
6. Mahmud Dawodu
7.Tunrayo Akintomide
8. Leken Abegunde
9. Olawunmi Oyedeji
10. Genga Orisarayi
11. Mukaila Adenekan
12. Lookman Lawal
13. Femi Peters
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment