Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
In the spirit of the season and in tandem with the Administration’s policy of identifying with Lagos citizens during religious activities and festivals, the First Family of Lagos, His Excellency Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode and Her Excellency Mrs. Bolanle Ambode, will celebrate Eid-il-Fitri with Muslims in the State, by hosting devotees to “Eid-il-Fitri Get Together” in 20 designated centers across the 20 Local Government Areas.
National Daily was reliably informed that the simultaneous Eid-il-fitri get together will be held in the following locations in the state.
1. Agege Stadium, Stadium Complex, in Agege LG;
2. Ago Hausa, Ajegunle, in Ajeromi Ifelodun LG;
3. Abesan Mini Stadium, Abesan Estate, Mosan–Okunola, in Alimosho LG;
4. FHA Field, 23 Road, Festac Town, in Amuwo Odofin LG;
5. United Christian Secondary School, Apapa Water works, off Liverpool, in Apapa LG;
6. VIP Chalet Badagry/Ascon Road, in Badagry, LG;
7. Marina Waterfront, Oju Alaro,in  Epe LG;
8. Ruby Gardens, Tisco Bus stop, in Eti-Osa LG;
9. Iberekodo Primary School, in Ibeju Lekki LG;
10. Ifako-Ijaiye Mini Stadium, beside Ifako-Ijaiye General Hospital in Ifako Ijaiye LG;
11. Sky Power Ground, beside Arc. Bishop Vanning GRA, in Ikeja LG;
12. Ikorodu Ferry Terminal, in Ikorodu LG;
13. Emmanuel High Primary Sch., Emmanuel High Street, Off Ogudu Road, Ojota, in Kosofe LG;
14. 64 Freeman Street, in Lagos Island;
15. Evans Square, Carter/Simpson Street, Ebute-Metta, in Lagos Mainland LG;
16. NITEL Playing Ground, Agege Motor Road, Cappa, in Mushin LG;
17. Ojo Local Govt. Secretariat, Olojo Drive, Ojo Town, in OJo LG.
18. Oshodi-Isolo Local Govt. premises, in Oshodi LG;
19. August Memorial, opposite army barrack, Morrocco, in Somolu LG; and
20. National Stadium Open Space, Surulere, in Surulere LG
ALSO SEE: Ambode receives report of Committee on Federal Assets in Lagos
National Daily reports that all Muslims in Lagos, after observing their Eid-il-Fitri prayers on Sunday 25th June, 2017 (Subjected to Sighting of the Moon signaling the end of holy month of Ramadan) are, therefore, enjoined to attend the Get-Together, from 11 am to 2pm, at a centre that falls within respective Local Government or Local Council Development Areas.
It should be noted that at end of every Ramadan, the First Family in the State, had been hosting Muslims to Eid-il Fitri Get-Together, in the State House, Ikeja, but the Administration of His Excellency, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode is decentralizing the hosting ceremony to the grassroots, to cover all 20 Local Government Areas, to enable as many Lagosian Muslims as possible get involved and be part of the celebration.
His Excellency, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, while extending Special Greetings to fasting Muslims, remarks that occasions like this, gives his Administration the opportunity to reach out and venerate with Muslims, Christians and other faith-based devotees during their respective special and holy days, and that the State’s participation, identification and involvement during religious festivals is another ways of projecting hospitality, concord and love that Lagosians are noted for.
He enjoins all Lagosians to keep on praying for the State and continue to celebrate one another’s differences so as to strengthen their cherished unity.
While thanking all Lagosians for sustaining the atmosphere of peace coexistence and religious harmony in the State, Governor Ambode Administration restated his commitment to inclusive governance, that always strive to involve and carry along in the State affairs, all religious groups, irrespective of affiliations, denominations and interests.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment