Share this on WhatsApp



 
A coalition of organisations have slated a Colloquium in Lagos in honour of one of Nigeria’s renowned scholars, Abubakar Momoh, professor of Political Science at the Lagos State University (LASU).
According to a statement signed by Tony Iyare, Chairman, media & publicity committee, the programmed is scheduled to hold on July 3rd, 2017 at the main auditorium  of LASU, Ojo, with the theme, “Nigeria in Crisis: Rethink Economic Policies and Posing Alternative Development and Political Options.
Former ASUU Chairman, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Professor Omotoye Olorode is expected to speak on the main theme of the event to be chaired by Human Rights Lawyer, Mr Femi Falana, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN).
Other speakers on the sub themes include Executive Director, Community Life Project, Mrs Ngozi Iwerre who will speak on “The Civil Society Organisations and the Challenge of Re-Building Broad Social Movement in Nigeria”.
President of the University of Ibadan Students’ Union, Mr Aderemi Ojo and a former President, National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Mr Lanre Arogundade, also Coordinator, International Press Centre, Lagos will talk on “Students’ Movement In Retrospect: The Way Forward”
Also, two labour activists, Dr Femi Aborishade, a Lawyer with bias on Labour matters and Mr Issa Aremu, General Secretary, National Union of Textiles, Tailoring and Garments (NUTG) will discuss “Labour Struggles on Neo-Liberalism and Electoral Reforms”.
ALSO SEE: Eid-il-Fitri: Love, unity, vigilance cardinals of faith – Obasa
Another acclaimed scholar, Professor Eghosa Osaghae, Vice Chancellor, Igbinedion University, Okada will also speak on “Addressing the National Question Amidst Rising Ethnic and Political Tensions”.
The event which will be preceded with Tributes by different organisations is expected to be attended by members of ASUU, Labour and human rights activists, students and members of other civil society organisations.
Momoh, a former Dean, Faculty of Social Sciences, LASU was a former National Treasurer, ASUU. A highly resourceful, rigorous and engaging scholar, he was also a former chairman of ASUU, LASU branch.
Until his death on May 29th, 2017, Momoh was the Director General, National Electoral Institute, Abuja.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment