Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
Hon. Rita Orji a member of the Federal House of Representatives, representing Ajeromi Ifelodun federal constituency, worried over the plight of her constituents,commuting in and around the Otto Wharf link road has facilitated a temporary palliative, to stall loss of lives and property along the route.
Speaking with some representatives of Julius Berger Construction Company with whom she made a trek through the axis in question,Rita reiterated that the route has an economic value to the people of Ajeromi and would be of benefit if the company can help fix it,the group however promised to effect an immediate palliative on the road.
The trained lawyer turned legislator,while in a chat with National Daily noted that,”The people of Ajegunle has no free access road to do their business,no presence of government is felt here in time past,here today the problem of Otto Wharf route will get a temporary solution having been in a deplorable state for quite long.
“AJ community benefitted nothing from the Federal and State government,yet we pay tax to their coffers,we need infrastructural development and other social amenities here than elsewhere.
“While we work on a permanent construction,which will take a while and due to a number of processes,what we are doing now is temporal to ameliorate the suffering of the masses from Berger bus-stop to the school over there,so that people like me will no longer be running away from home,trucks won’t be falling along this axis,accidents will be abated,see this school premises flooded owing to the state of the road.
“So as a member of the Federal House of Reps,an AJ product,I know what we want and will conjur with my people,brief and debrief them to consider our plight and do the needful,I will also push for a permanent solution from here to boundary.
 
National Daily captured a sorry scene at Ajegunle Primary school Awodi Ora located along the Otto Wharf area, where pupils and teachers were edged in by flood which had taken over there school premises due to bad state of the road.
“When NEPA deserted the entire Amukoko,some say it is a state matter,but Ifelt so concerned and move a motion to that effect on the floor of the House of Reps,today a new power station is here for Amukoko people,we have taken our destinies in our hands in Ajegunle,knowing well that if I close my mouth nothing happen.
Commenting on the upcoming July 22nd council poll,Rita told National Daily that there is a programme that will take 600 youths off the streets of Ajegunle every three months,”AJ people owe me an explanation why they won’t cast their votes for me having used your judiciously and it paid off in time past,your decision is key,”She reiterated.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment