Share this on WhatsApp

The General Manager, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) Mr. Adesina Tiamiyu, has advised Lagos residents to be safety  and security conscious during the public
holidays for the Muslim faithful for the celebration of EID-IL FITRI.

The Federal Government has declared Monday 26th and Tuesday 27th June, 2017 as public holidays to mark Muslim festival.

Tiamiyu said people should be safety-cautious and vigilant while closely monitoring persons and activities around them with a view to securing safety of lives and properties of all Lagosians.




National Daily gathered that people are in the habit of over speeding, drinking of alcohol and non compliance to traffic rules and regulations during this period which most times lead to series of accidents.

He, therefore, advised drivers to be safety cautious while driving, saying that offenders of such offences would be prosecuted by the appropriate authorities.

He disclosed that the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Lagos State Fire and Safety Service, Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS), Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Nigerian Police Force, Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) and all relevant agencies in the management of emergencies in the State have been put on red alert to secure and protect the lives and properties of the people living and doing business in the State.





ALSO SEE: Lagos remains home to all tribes, nationalities – Ambode, Akiolu

Tiamiyu, therefore, assured that the Lagos State Emergency Call Centre lines 767/112 which is toll free from any telecommunication network are open 24 hours to any distress call from all the nooks and crannies of the State.

He stressed that the State Government is so much concerned about the safety of lives and properties of all Lagosians, and as such there would be punitive measures for persons who drive in a reckless manner without reasonable consideration for others.

He further warned that driving above the speed limit on highway, driving against traffic, overloading, under-age driving, usage of mobile phone while driving, non-use of seat belt and other traffic/criminal offences would be dealt with.

Public Affairs Unit, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Adebayo Kehinde, however reiterated his Agency’s readiness and commitment in the management of emergency/disaster in the State through prompt intervention and extending its tentacles to all the nook and crannies of the State.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment