Share this on WhatsApp



Mr Kehinde Adeleye, the Zonal Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) RS5, Benin, says the organisation will enforce emotional and mental evaluation of traffic offenders.
Adeleye made the assertion during his second quarter inspection of the Anambra Command Headquarters in Awka on Wednesday.
The zonal commander said the FRSC would carry out the tests to check offenders’ level of stability.
He advised motorists in the zone to change their attitude and avoid being caught in the web of the new policy.
National Daily reports that RS5, Benin comprises Anambra, Delta and Edo states.
Adeleye said the enforcement of the new traffic management policy would be comprehensive, adding that it had become expedient to check recklessness and enhance safety.
The zonal commander said that so many lives had been lost on the highways, noting that some of the offences that would attract tests include use of phones, route violation and speeding.
Adeleye, however, said that there was improvement on some of FRSC’s activities in the second quarter of 2016, adding that the corps should not relent in its efforts.
“The FRSC has come up with a project to address the anomalies in the behaviour of road users; people using phone while driving and people engaging in excessive speeding.
“It will also address those who fail to install speed limiter in their vehicles and people who drive against traffic.
“With the good roads and no gridlock, we observe that people still chose to drive against traffic,’’ the zonal commander said.
“Motorists caught committing these offences will be subjected to emotional and mental evaluation to check their level of stability and we are going to enforce that seriously.
“I am using this opportunity to appeal to road users to be conscious of their safety and do everything possible to promote their safety.
ALSO SEE: FRSC Academy to award degrees
“Across the zone, there has been tremendous improvement over the first quarter in the areas of enforcement, public enlightenment and stakeholders’ engagement.’’
According to him, our response time to crash scenes has also improved to about five to six minutes.
Adeleye commended the Anambra Command of the FRSC, headed by MrSunday Ajayi, for a good job in keeping the corridor safe.
He also thanked the state government for donating three motorcycles to the command to enhance its operations.
“The Anambra Government came to our aid with three motorcycles to enhance our patrol monitoring; and we intend to monitor the whole routes,’’ he said.
Contributing, Ajayi said the visit of the zonal commander was re-energising and would motivate them to do more for the safety of the people.
“We cannot assess ourselves. The important thing is that we have not lost track in our duty to reduce crash and death.
“The zonal commander is here to evaluate the situation in Anambra and with his coming we have been directed again on what to do.
“We shall leverage on that to ensure that roads in Anambra become the safest in Nigeria,’’
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment