Share this on WhatsApp
Aka Ikenga, a think tank of Igbo professionals, has demanded the arrest and prosecution of leaders of the Coalition of Northern Youths by security operatives over the Kaduna Declaration revealed last Tuesday.

The cultural group in a statement by Sam Anyanwu, its Publicity Secretary, noted what it considered the unguarded “Kaduna Declaration” by the so-called Coalition of Northern Youths calling on a significant section of Nigeria to quit their places of residence in a certain part of the country. “We believe that they are sponsored agents provocateur intent on sparking conflagration against an innocent group of Nigerians pursuing their rights of residency and to own property, as provided for in the 1999 Constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended),” the group declared.

Aka Ikenga noted that it is the duty of government under the Constitution to guarantee the safety of lives and property of the people wherever they may find themselves.

“We note that this phantom group has recanted from its threat but the seed of discord is already sown.

“We call on government and all well-meaning Nigerians to work together to ensure that such impunity is NEVER repeated.

“We also call on the law enforcement agencies to apprehend and prosecute those behind the outburst, including, their sponsors. This will deter those who might be tempted to toy with the constitutional rights of fellow Nigerians in the future,” Anyanwu declared.

The group commended the reactions from various law abiding and patriotic Nigerians condemning the rascality and unconstitutionality of the outburst of this amorphous organisation.

ALSO SEE: South East Governors assure northern residents of safety

“We in Aka Ikenga are, particularly, energised with hope for a better Nigeria, judging from the various reactions from well-meaning compatriots.

“In this regard we must thank our brothers from the middle belt (North Central) for their understanding, support and love.

“We are also thankful for the timely intervention of Governor Kashim Shettima, who spoke eloquently and, patriotically, on behalf of the northern Governors’ forum condemning the irresponsibility of the so called coalition of youths.

“With a warm heart, we thank our brothers from the South South and South West, represented by Region of the Niger Delta (RONDEL) and the Afenifere respectively, together with other well-meaning individuals and groups who forcefully demonstrated solidarity with the demand for justice and equity in Nigeria,” Anyanwu highlighted.

The group also commended the Federal Government’s reaction condemning the reckless declaration by the obviously misguided youths.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment