By OKOSUN DENNIS

The new General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division, Nigerian Army, Major General Peter John Dauke has assumed duty with a promise to strengthen security architecture in his command.

He took over from the former GOC, Major General Ebenezer Babatunde Oyefolu, who has been redeployed to the Headquarters, Nigerian Army Training Centre and appointed as the  Commandant.

While handing over the mantle of authority of the division at the 81 Div Conference room to the new GOC, Gen Dauke, who until his appointment was the GOC 3rd Division, Jos, Oyefolu pointed out that everything was been done to secure the release of kidnapped school children at Epe.

However, Gen Dauke expressed joy and at the same time called on officers and soldiers to support him in the quest to move the division forward during his tenure.


Gen Dauke was enlisted into the Nigerian Defence Academy in 1984 and commissioned in 1986 into the Nigerian Armoured corps. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Psychology from the University of Maiduguri and a Masters degree in Strategic studies.

He told National Daily that he was ecstatic to command the division. “I am happy to be here on the second tour of duty. I urge each and everyone of you to join hands with me and I want to thank the out gone GOC for the successes achieved despite his short stay.






ALSO SEE: Richest Nigerian kidnapper’s final journey to detention


Gen Oyefolu told National Daily that the most challenging moments as the GOC had to do with the cosmopolitan nature of the society especially with the recentralization kidnappings of school children in Epe, and pipeline vandalism.


“Our prayers is that the children that were kidnapped about three weeks ago would be released hale and hearty to their parents.

The army, police and other security agencies have been working to ensure that the children are rescued,” he reiterated.

He thanked the Chief of Army Staff and the President for giving him the opportunity to serve as GOC.

“I am living with a high sense of fulfillment even though my stay here was relatively short,” he noted.

High point of the handing over was the decoration of the new GOC with the 81 Division insignia and lowing and hoisting of the flag at the Quarter Guard.

Present at the handing over ceremony were the 9 Brigade Commander, Brig Gen Elias Attu, Commander, Garrison, Dodan Barracks, the Chief of Staff, 81 Division, Brig Gen H.I Hassan, commanders of units and senior officers of the division.








			
			Post Views: 
			120