Share this on WhatsApp



 
In preparation for the Ramadan celebration, Jetvan is offering a 50% service discount on labour and diagnostics to its customers as part of activities to ensure a safe and enjoyable ride all through the Ramadan season.
According to Mr. Tobi Ajayi, Managing Director, Jetvan Automobiles Limited in a recent communique, this special offer is aimed at ensuring all her Sprinter customers are in perfect driving condition and all necessary safety precautions are taken in this peak season.
“Again for this season, we’re on a mission to ensure the safety of our customers while on the move With our team’s specific combination of skills, offering the best for a reasonable cost, especially this Ramadan season is a priority for us – knowing that our customers will be doing a lot of travelling and family celebrations, we therefore urge the public to pay us a visit for hassle free maintenance while benefiting from our special offer.” – Mr. Tobi Ajayi.”
Proudly supported by a wide network of after-sales representatives nationwide, the Sprinter has gained the confidence of the public by providing a delightful driving experience regardless of the distance travelled.
ALSO SEE: Pay us our $2bn debt to avert fuel scarcity, oil marketers tell FG
Jetvan officially commenced dealership responsibility in April 2015, as part of Weststar’s expansion plan to accommodate the demands of Mercedes-Benz ever-growing customer base while maintaining premium customer service standards in Nigeria.
“We consider ourselves the partner of all seasons, motivated to prevent unnecessary tragedies related to our products on the road. Customers and fleet owners can visit our dealership at Kilometer 46, Lekki-Epe expressway, Ajah, Lagos as well as our field service workshops in Benin, Abuja, Asaba and Port-Harcourt to enjoy this Special offer” – Mr. Tobi Ajayi .
Jetvan Automobiles Limited is equipped with not just state-of-the-art maintenance facilities but a dedicated professional team, steadily willing to offer technical advice, service and genuine spare parts to the public, which is in line with the global benchmark set by Mercedes-Benz.
Since its incorporation in 2014, Jetvan Automobiles Limited has steadily built a reputation for its impeccable sales and aftersales services. These services include sales and maintenance of Mercedes-Benz Sprinter vans and minibuses. As Weststar’s sole authorized dealer of Mercedes-Benz Sprinter Buses in Nigeria, Jetvan also engages in the provision of VIP vans/mini bus charter service to individuals and corporate institutions. The Sprinter is often seen on Nigerian roads as it caters for emergency centers, travel and logistics, schools, hotel pick-ups, family van and VIP shuttles.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment