Share this on WhatsApp

splash .5m on 12 youngsters in Ifako-Ijaiye




By Lanre Adesanya
Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has disclosed that his choice of celebrating with Muslim faithful in their various council areas was borne out of the need to engender good rapport,citing the bottlenecks people face coming to the State House to pay courtesy call on the first family in time past as something God despise.
Ambode made the disclosure at the Eid-il-Fitri celebration graced by dignitaries from Ifako-Ijaiye LGA and Ojokoro LCDA, held at the mini stadium Ifako-Ijaiye Lagos.
He added that he lived in the area before and knew what the needs of the people are but it would take a gradual process to get all their needs met.
“Two years back we celebrate in the State House but hardly could 20 individuals from Ifako Ijaiye and few from Ojokoro access the state house without hindrance,I see that this is not what God wanted,so we chose to go celebrate with them in their local government.
“Imagine if not for this opportunity I would not be chanced to see this children reciting the Surah so well.
I once lived in this area,Ogunbusola street Iju,I know what the situation was like back then and I am merely paying back with street light,but not all they wanted in Ojokoro/Ifako Ijaiye that I have done,I am sure with your prayers all other things will fall in place.
“I enjoin you all to sustain the spirit of love,brotherhood, tolerance and care as espoused in the just concluded Ramadan period,as we have learnt the fear of Allah and care for the less privileged in our midst,freedom of religion and worship must be preserved,”The Governor said.
The two Sole Administrators of Ifako-Ijaiye LGA and Ojokoro LCDA,Mr. Babatunde Rahj Label and Dr. Ipaye,All Progressives Congress flagbearers in the coming July 22nd council poll,Apostle Toba Oke and Hon. Oladipo Okeyomi,Hon. Dayo Saka Fafunmi member Lagos state House of Assembly and Hon.Nurudeen Akinwunmi member Federal House of Representatives,representing Ifako Ijaiye Federal constituency and others were all in attendance.
Ustaz Sheik Issa Abdul Mojeeb who delivered a short remark commended the Governor for the simultaneous maiden eid-il-fitri get together,noting that he would get a recompense for all his good deeds.
The Governor aided by the Hon. Commissioner for Home Affairs Dr. AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef made cash donations to twelve youngsters who recited the Surah, totaling N550,000.
In the Mainland Governor Akinwunmi Ambode also restated his commitment to uphold and protect freedom of belief and practice of all religion in the State, affirming his determination to security enhancement, he urge all Lagosians to be more security conscious to better protect lives and property by cooperating with security operatives, including the newly inaugurated Neighbourhood Safety Corp.
Speaking further; Ambode says he appreciates all religion and gives his profuse thanks to all religious groups, leaders and followers for their solid support been given to his administration. He thanks all Lagosians for peaceful coexistence and harmonious relationship that is reigning in the State, urging them not to relent, in order that the nation and Lagos State will continue to grow. He says Lagosians are on the right path as all religion preaches love, brotherhood, tolerance and care. He assures that his administration is committed to these principles.
ALSO SEE: Lagos remains home to all tribes, nationalities – Ambode, Akiolu
He congratulated Muslim faithful and all Lagosians who were able to witness 29 days of fasting and are gathered at the Get-Together to celebrate Ed and dialogues while in merriment. He enjoins Muslim to continue to keep to Quranic injunctions as practiced by Prophet Muhammad, by fearing Allah and taking care of less privilege, that they had devoted to in the last one month during Ramadan.
While felicitating, he affirmed that Lagosians, including the people of Mainland Local Government where he grew up, had been good to him, while promising not to take citizens’ support for granted but strive harder to deliver more dividend of democracy.
Hon.Commissioner,Ministry of Home Affairs, Dr. AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef thanks His Excellency the Governor of Lagos, for initiating this people oriented and highly participatory programme and commends Muslim faithful, including Lagosians for embracing it. He urge continued support for Ambode’s Administration.
Among thousands of Lagosians that trooped out for the event were traditional rulers and religious leaders from the Mainland Local Government, including the Chief Imam of Mainland, Alhaji Sabittiu Akanni Lawal, and Alhaji Abdullahi Suhaib who delivered a brief Sermon where he praise Ambode for his love and care of people in Lagos and for his unprecedented achievements in Lagos.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment