Ediale Kingsley gives in bullet point details the expected first team choice for Chelsea next season. Although there appears to be some squabbles here and there within the club. However, it’s expected that the champions would attempt to restructure and try to defend their title with a solid squad that can stretch to accommodate their potential long distance trips as they feature in the UCL. Here is the expected first eleven: 
1. Goal Keeper: Thibaut Courtois
Yet to sign deal extension. Apparently has a ‘long-throat’ towards wage increase. But he should still be the number 1 keeper.
2. RCB: Cesaz Azpilicueta played all the min in last season’s EPL. An amazing 3420mins. He is definitely gonna be the RCB for at least 2 more seasons.
3. CB: David Luiz was at a time a thorn in the flesh of Chelsea fans. When he was to make the move back from PSG. Many Chelsea fans wondered if it was the right move. They wonder no more. Dude was special last season.
4. LCB:  Leonardo Bonucci is a reason why Nigeria’s Kenneth Omero wants another loan out of Chelsea. Conte wants the experienced player from Juventus.
5. LWB: Alex Sandro is another item in the Juventus show-glass. Conte wants him for his alternative 4–2-4 formation. Alex adapts easily to the 3-4-3 or 4-2-4 formation.
6. RWB: Victor Moses, the Nigerian, was fantastic last season as Conte made a spot for him in the team. The dive/red card in the FA final between Arsenal left a bitter taste in the mouth of Chelsea fans. That makes this prediction, of the entire 11, the least dependable. However, Conte loves him, defended him and that’s why I think he will remain the first choice for the spot.
ALSO SEE: Life after Madrid: Calculating Ronaldo’s worth, who can afford him
7. Midfielder: Ngolo Kante got the EPL’s Best Player award last season. He also got the Football Writers(EPL) Best Player award. Dude was solid and should continue.
8. Midfielder: Tiemoue Bakayoko from Monaco doesn’t have some Chelsea fans dancing Azonto just yet. But we can’t deny who they will all prefer between Bakayoko and Matic.
9. RW: Pedro brought pace to Chelsea. First season wasn’t quite impressive. However, there’s no denying that his goals, created space, run ins and assists was quite an impact.
10. LW: Eden Hazard, if he doesn’t go to Real Madrid. He will maintain his position. If he does, Chelsea may attempt to replace with Ronaldo  or Yannick Carrasco.
11. Striker: R. Lukaku. What many Chelsea fans don’t like Antonio Conte for. They would have preferred Morata or their own Diego Costa. But Chelsea fans shouldn’t forget Lukaku scored 26 goals and had 6 assists last season.

			
			Post Views: 
			201