Share this on WhatsApp



 
Rotary Club of Lagos Island (RCLI), in association with its major corporate facilitators Telenoetica, Lafarge, Mahindra and Mahindra and Life Skills Consultants Africa Ltd, is organizing Vocational Training programs Free of Charge to needy and desirable candidates as a response to need for Skill Development in the country, through its project Emprowess.
Vocational Training Project Chairman Abhishek Srivastava MD and CEO of Telenoetica Limited said that empowering people through skill development helps in creating work force for a developing country, and would generate both employment and enterprises.
Through Project EMPROWESS, which signifies empowerment through skill development, RCLI will train youth’s on vocations such as Electronics and Electrical Repairs, Generator Mechanics, Health Safety & Environment, Advanced MS Excel &MS Office, Masonry, Tailoring, Driving and Beautician.
Telenoetica Limited is training on Electronics & Electrical Repairs and Health Safety and Environment and the first batch of 15 participants already trained successfully. The second batch of Electronics and Electrical Repairs started on 19th June. Participants enrolled through email/call centre shall get opportunity on first come first serve basis said Mr Srivastava.
Lafarge is organising vocational training on Masonry that will start from 26th June to 30th June, participants interested to learn Civil Work, Artistic work through cement can participant to this 5 days hands on training. . Participants will get basic masonry tools free of cost to start their job upon the successful completion of training program. Empowering People with Skill development is our commitment – said Mr. Vipul Agarwal, Marketing Director, Lafarge.
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. will organise vocational training program on Generator Repairs to join RCLI in its drive to train needy youth with various skills. Mr Prasad Sane, Business head of Mahindra West Africa said we are committed for better service and efficient power solution and training people shall increase skill level of generator maintenance and it shall boost candidates’ efforts in securing jobs as trained generator mechanics.
ALSO SEE: Germany, latest haven for Gay couples
Life Skills Consultants Africa will organise vocation training program on Soft Skills, Customer Service, Sales & Marketing Skills and one of the most demanding corporate skill Advanced MS Excel. Human Capital Development is every organizations focus today and for Rotary as well for social change, transformation and empowerment, said Life Skills Africa’s business head Mr. Sanjay Srivastava.
RCLI is organising Vocational training programs to mark Rotary centenary year said Charter President Mr. Vinod Garg.
Garg further said RCLI is committed to service projects such as School Infrastructure development, Eye care & Surgeries forCataract, General Health Check-up Camp & Surgery camps, and Blood Donation Camps. He invited the volunteers from various social groups to be part of rotary movement to serve the needy and make a difference to the society.
The Incoming president for RCLI (2017-2018) Mr. Sanjeev Tandon briefed on the plans to adopt primary schools and develop the infrastructure to convert them to Model Schools. He also informed that RCLI has joined hands with other organizations for Free Distribution of Artificial Limbs.
RCLI General Secretary Rtn Ramesh Jain congratulated the already benefited trainees and recognized the Project Emprowess team members Rtn. Kamlesh Jain, Rtn. Meenu Bendre, Rtn Mousumi, Rtn Rocheet Abbi for their contributions and relentless efforts in starting and making the project a big success.
“RCLI is sponsoring Free Vocational Studies to needy ones in the month of June and July  to mark Golden Jubilee celebration of Rotary International, Interested candidates for Free Vocational Courses on MS Excel & Soft Skills can send their CV to rclivocational@gmail.com
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment