L-R: Managing Director, Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company, Bayo Ojulari; Executive Secretary, Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board, Simbi Wabote; and the Chairman, Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria, Okoroafor Bank-Anthony, at the opening ceremony of a workshop on Nigeria Content Opportunity in Bonga South West Aparo Deep Offshore Project organised by SNEPCo in Lagos… on Wednesday

        
 


Nigeria’s first Centre of Excellence in Marine and Offshore Engineering has taken root at the Rivers State University, Port Harcourt, thanks to Shell Petroleum Development Company Joint Venture (SPDC JV) which donated the multi-million-naira facility.
The Centre is stocked with modern hydrodynamic equipment and accessories for post graduate education in related disciplines including Marine Engineering (Power Plant), Naval Architecture as well as Offshore and Subsea Engineering.
 
Speaking at the inauguration of the Centre, MD of SPDC and Country Chair of Shell Companies in Nigeria, Osagie Okunbor said the new Centre will serve as a graduate studies centre and develop quality graduates for potential employment in the oil and gas industry and related sectors.
 
The Rivers State Governor, Barr. Nyesom Wike, who was represented by the Commissioner of Education, Professor Kaniye Ebeku, said: “This project will help RSU realise its entrepreneurial target. Unemployable graduates would become employable from this Centre which will help to produce experts to man sensitive institutions in Nigeria. It is good that SPDC is not only donating and quitting but is staying to support its growth.” 
 
The Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof Blessing Didia said the facility has strengthened one of the university’s key objectives to produce top-level manpower for development. And that the university was proud to produce the first African professor of Marine Engineering, Professor Bob Manuel. “The university is indeed grateful to SPDC JV for the monumental gesture and the demonstration of corporate responsibility,” he added.
ALSO SEE: SPDC warns Ogoni communities on dangers of crude oil theft
 
Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development & Monitoring Board (and alumnus of RSU), Engineer Simbi Wabote, commended SPDC’s contribution to the university and to growing the capabilities of Nigerians in the oil and gas industry. He promised to enable NCDMB’s collaboration with the Centre.
 
SPDC’s General Manager External Relations, Igo Weli, said SPDC would continue to implement developmental projects in the Niger Delta, and appealed to the people of the region to create a conducive environment for businesses to thrive.
 
In 2012, the SPDC JV established a Centre of Excellence in Geosciences and Petroleum Engineering at the University of Benin, which offers three specialised postgraduate degrees in Geology, Geophysics and Petroleum Engineering. 
 
The SPDC JV has also endowed active Professional Chairs in six Nigerian universities. In 2016, a Chair in Light Weight Automobile Engine Development was established at the Federal University of Petroleum Resources in Effurun, Delta State, which is expected to contribute to the growth of local content in Nigeria’s automobile industry. 
 
Also, research at the Shell Professional Chair in Petroleum Engineering at the University of Port Harcourt in 2012 produced the Optiwell well-bore stability software. Use of the software has significantly reduced drilling time as well as costs associated with mud loss and other drilling challenges.
 
The Centre of Excellence, apart from building teachers’ capacity, will run 18-month Master’s and Diploma programmes. The academic package covers classroom lecture, practical sessions, term project modules and a 6-month internship in the oil and gas industry.  
 
A Board of Trustees made up of members from the Rivers State University and SPDC will administer the joint venture’s annual subvention to the Centre of Excellence.

			
			Post Views: 
			331