Share this on WhatsApp

A woman has been sent to her father’s house by the husband after the husband accused her of making amorous sound while been raped by an armed robber in his presence instead of screaming.

The Benue State-born man identified as Baba Eneh sacked the woman after robbers stormed their home at Bello Street in the Iyana-Ejigbo area of Lagos State, few months after their traditional marriage.

The man told the court that he decided to divorce his newly married wife because she was making some ‘funny moaning’ sounds while being raped by armed robbers in his presence.

National Daily gathered that when the  gunmen invaded Baba Eneh’s house about 3 am and demanded for money, the native of Owukpa, Ogadigbo Local Government Area of Benue was said to have had only N3, 500 on him.

Angered by the offer of N3,500, the robbers threatened to wipe the entire family out.

After persistent begging that he spent all that he had on the wedding, the robbers decided to take a pound of flesh on the newly wedded wife by gang raping her as compensation for money they did not get from the husband.


ALSO SEE: Is Uche Jombo getting a divorce?


The commercial motor driver watched as the wife was taken on one after the other by the robbers.

However, it was further gathered,  the commercial driver was said to have accused the wife of enjoying the sex by her moaning sound in excitement as well as twisting her waist in response to the robbers sexual assaulted on her, instead of screaming for help.

Baba Eneh said, “Imagine my wife, instead of her to cry for help, she was busy making some funny sounds, an indication that she was enjoying the sex, even in my presence.”

The man is demanding fdivorce  on the ground that the wife disgraced him as it is against the customs of his community for a married woman to have sex with another man.




It was learnt that the man is apprehensive for fear of the gods of his land, noting that it was a taboo or the woman returns to the village for traditional cleansing rites and other sacrifices appropriately.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment