Share this on WhatsApp

The Federal Government says primary and secondary schools in the country will soon start teaching Mathematics and Science subjects in Yoruba, Hausa, and Igbo.

Science and Technology Minister Ogbonnaya Onu said this at the inauguration of inter-ministerial committee on teaching of mathematics and science subjects in local languages in Abuja on Wednesday.

The committee, comprising Federal Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Education, will help to develop the capacity of the local languages to serve as effective tools for teaching mathematics and science subjects.

According to him, the project will help Nigerian students to understand mathematics and science subjects better, and would also promote the application of science and technology for national development.

Citing India and China,  nu said teaching mathematics and the science subjects in their indigenous languages at the primary school level help the countries’ advancement in science and technology.

“For us to build the country of our dreams, for us to make Nigeria a truly great nation, a nation that is able to feed and house its citizens, a nation with a stable currency, we must embrace science and technology.

“Nigeria will remain dependent nation if the citizens did not embrace science and technology, because no nation can become great without science and technology.

ALSO SEE: NANS urges Buhari to subsidise education

“If Nigeria is to be great then, Nigerians must embrace science and technology.

“The socio-economic challenges we are facing in the country is as a result of inadequate application of science and technology,” he said.

He said that graduates were no longer able to get jobs after their studies because the nation imports everything it needed.

Minister of Education Adamu Adamu also said using mother tongue to teach science and mathematics would certainly help and ensure better understanding of the of the subjects.

Represented by Useni Adamu, the director overseeing the office of the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, the minister said that the project would facilitate a major breakthrough in the area of science and technology.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment