Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
Peugeot Automobile of Nigeria Limited (PAN) is planning to storm Nigeria’s auto market with the latest generation design of its award Peugeot 301 luxury sedan, National Daily has gathered.
The new design nicknamed 301 Midlife, National Daily gathered, is dressed in the latest stylistic codes of the brand, laced with striking vertical grille, body-set spotlights even as neat adjustments embody the sturdiness of the car.
On a very close look, the luminous signatures, incorporating LEDs at the front, are the expression of the technological content. This Peugeot 301 offers considerable skill and trunk volume, dynamic behaviour and a design adapted to local requirements.
ALSO SEE: All-new Mercedes-Benz Accelo unveils in Nigeria
At the front is a powerful front face with a wide vertical grille (‘Hot Chrome’ on Allure level or with ‘Chrome Pack’ in Active) surrounding the lion that epitomizes the brand’s traditional logo.
The horizontal hood contributes to the feeling of robustness that emerges from the car. That also results in a retracted positioning of the bumper of the new grille for better resistance to small shocks. Laterally, any curious observer would easily notice a “horizontal” hood and new rims for more dynamism.
Furthermore, the new 16” wheels highlight the dynamism of the car. The ‘Albury’ style steel rim offers a 16″ economical offer with a rewarding style. The Perth diamond rim brings a lot of dynamism to the profile of the car and participates in the sense of upscale.
The new Peugeot 301 offers connectivity to the driver and passengers: a 7” capacitive touchscreen, speech recognition, TomTom navigation with display of elevations and level differences in three-dimensional roads.
Triple Play compatible Mirror Screen, to duplicate the smartphone content on the touchscreen of the vehicle. USB connectivity, Bluetooth. It offers unprecedented safety and comfort for the driver and passengers in terms of ergonomics, driving position, height adjustment of the seat and steering wheel with touch screen at the fingertips and eyes, comfortable seats ensuring lateral support and comfort on all types of roads.
It comes equipped with numerous storage spaces in the passenger compartment. A moveable trunk that offers a volume of the best in its class from 506 dm3 to 1332 dm3, thanks to the fold-able backrest and split 2 / 3-1 / 3, dynamic benefits worthy of the brand called Peugeot.
In the area safety, the new Sedan offers high tech safety features that guarantees the safety of both occupants and pedestrians.
As a model positioned to be a run-away success that will guarantee individual and fleet customers returns of their investments, the incoming Peugeot 301 Midlife is offering habitability and practicality at best levels.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment