Elders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State have warned former governors Segun Oni and Kayode Fayemi against joining the 2018 governorship race in the state.

The elders said the duo and former Governor Niyi Adebayo should see themselves as leaders of the party and not condescend so low to join the governorship race.

The elders made their feelings known during a meeting held at the Iyin-Ekiti home of Adebayo.

A source who spoke to National Daily at the meeting disclosed that political arrangement in the state does not favour the former governors contesting again.

They said Ekiti South Senatorial District is next in line to produce the governor of the state.
Oni and Fayemi are from Ekiti North Senatorial District.

Among those who spoke? at the meeting was Chief Femi Oyebanjo, the pioneer Chairman of the Alliance for Democracy in Ekiti Central Senatorial District, who said God had already elevated the former governors and coming now to seek governorship position would not be in their interest.

Another speaker, Chief Tejioye from Ikun-Ekiti in Moba Local Government Area of the state said joining the race would only create tension in the party in the state.

ALSO SEE: Ekiti 2018: APC will be defeated again – Fayose vows

It will be recalled that Engr Segun Oni first dropped the hint of joining the guber race at a feast organized by the Special Adviser to the President, Senator Babafemi Ojudu in his Ado country home early this year.

Since then many of his followers have engaged in a battle of wits with the supporters of another contestant over his dual status.

Meanwhile, Dr Kayode Fayemi has never, at any time, declared any intention to contest the 2018 Governorship election. He had only maintained that the June 14, 2014 governorship election was an “uncompleted assignment”

However, there have been speculations that the minister is still eyeing the governorship seat following the subterranean moves by some of his followers in making consultations with the leaders across the state over the possibility of Fayemi’s joining the race.

			
			Post Views: 
			56