Share this on WhatsApp
By Richards Adeniyi
 
The Kirikiri Lighter Terminal (KLT) command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) on Tuesday handed over two 40 ft containers to officials of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) over false declaration.
 
In a brief ceremony which was held at the Phase 2 terminal of the command, the Customs Area Controller (CAC), Comptroller Lami Wushishi, said one of the containers with number PCIU 829442-6 was declared on the manifest to be laden with spare parts, but upon physical examination it was found to be loaded with drugs and pirated films.
 
The second container with number MRKU 416397-2 was manifested contained unregistered pharmaceutical products –Augmentin and Really Extra.
 
Emphasizing on the need for truthful and genuine declaration of goods, the Customs boss noted that it will give room for effective trade facilitation and implementation of government policies.
 
“These drugs are unfit for human consumption since they are not certified by appropriate agency. We have several cases of kidney failure as a result of restricted drugs that are not certified by NAFDAC. We will see how we will corporate to see how we will stop these kinds of drugs from coming into the country.”
 
In order to avoid substandard goods flooding the market, Compt Wushishi urged Nigerians to always seek advice before venturing into importation to avoid their goods being seized.

ALSO SEE: Customs WMC seizes 914 bags of rice, others in one month
 
“For proper declaration, go to the regulatory agencies and get all your certificates ready and always seek for advice. Each agency has its own requirement, they should go there and they’ll be advised on what to do to bring to get these products imported in order to avoid substandard products from entering into the country.”
 
Receiving the items, NAFDAC’s Deputy Director in charge of Investigation and Enforcement, Emmanual Comfort, said further examination would be conducted on the products to determine the active ingredients and contents.
While promising to ensure the perpetrators are apprehended and brought to book, she however, appealed to Nigerians not to hesitate to report anyone involved in such nefarious act.
 
The CAC said no suspect was arrested in connection with the seizures. According to her, both the importer and agent disappeared as soon as they realized the goods had been intercepted.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment