By OKOSUN DENNIS

Owing to high degree of dilapidation which has resulted to humongous loss of lives and properties, residents of Ekpoma in Esan West Local Government of Edo have called for the immediate reconstruction of the Ekpoma-Auchi section of the Benin-Okene expressway.

Earlier in the month, the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare 2 had appealed to the federal government to reconstruct the bad road which has led to the death of several motorists.

Raising from a stakeholder meeting under the aegis of Ekpoma Concerned Stakeholders, the residents appealed for urgent rehabilitation of the road to save further loss of lives.

In the communique released in Benin City on Thursday, the residents called on the Minister of Works, Power and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN) to direct the contractor handling the project to return to site immediately.

National Daily recalls that the reconstruction of the dual carriage of Benin-Auchi road was awarded by the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan.

It was learnt that work began immediately but was abandoned shortly after. Since the present administration came to power, nothing has been done on the road.

The residents explained that the Benin-Auchi axis of the road was constructed in the early 70s but was now in its worst state and unmotorable.

ALSO SEE: Edo Assembly hires generator for plenary session

“It has also affected the socioeconomic activities of the people,’’ the residents reiterated.
Considering that the project was handled by the Federal Government, the residents, however, urged the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki to intervene by repairing parts of the road that were worst affected, noting that criminal elements are taking advantage of the bad state to attack motorists and residents.

“No meaningful work has been done since the contract for the dualisation and repair of the road was awarded by the federal government.

“Security agencies in the area should help us address the increasing rate of crime in Ekpoma and its environs as a result of the bad road.”

National Daily gathered that mostly affected are Opoji junction, Ukpenu stretching from Ikhirolo junction to Ambrose Ali University gate and Iruekpen.

			
			Post Views: 
			111