Share this on WhatsApp



Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) is insisting that telecommunications network operators must obtain permit from the Agency before erecting high rise structures.
Although, most telcos in Nigeria have third party arrangement for base stations/towers management, however, NCAA issued a very stern warning to all the operators of Global System for Mobile Communications to ensure they always obtain Aviation Height Clearance (AHC), Permits and Licences before construction of high rise structures.
A statement signed by Mr Sam Adurogboye, the general manger, public relations of NCAA, said the others affected by the warning are landing facilities owners, stakeholders and the general public.
The Regulatory agency said these Permits, Aviation Height Clearance and Licences are to be obtained before the construction of the following – Tower, Telecommunication Masts, High Rise Buildings/Structures and Landing facilities.
“These landing facilities include construction of Helipad/Helideck for civil use and Heliports.
This action is in line to the Civil Aviation Act. 2006 Part IX (30) (L) which empowers the Authority to prohibit, regulate and remove any structure which, by virtue of its height or position, is considered to endanger the safety of aircraft operations.
ALSO SEE: Finally, Menningitis is out of Nigeria, FG declares
In addition, the Civil Aviation Act. 2006 Part IX (30) (K) stipulates that the Authority will grant and certify licences for the construction of Helipads, Helidecks, and Heliports.
It is therefore an exercise in illegality to operate into a heliport (surface level, elevated or helideck) without the approval of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority NCAA,” Adurogboye said in the statement.
On the other hand, he explained that for those who want to renew their heliport certificate, the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations (Nig. CARs) Part 12.10.6 highlights that Heliports operators are required to commence the process of renewal of Heliport Certificate not less than 90 days to the date of expiration of the certificate.
In his words: “The Regulatory Authority is compelled to issue this warning as part of our oversight responsibilities which is principally safety and security of flight operations in and out of Nigerian airspace.
The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) will therefore view very seriously and run the rule over any violation of these safety measures. All stakeholders should be guided”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment