By Ediale Kingsley

Liverpool have set a Monday slash Tuesday deadline for Barcelona to agree a fee for 25-year-old midfielder Philippe Coutinho.

By Thursday, it will be the end of the transfer window. While the Reds have been rejecting the offers of Barcelona FC up to the the third bid of £138m. They are however expected to desire a more juicier deal of £155m for their talented Brazilian.

Coutinho has reportedly shown interest to the Barca call. He has sent in a transfer request via mail to his current boss, he’s told Jurgen Klop he doesn’t wish to stay and has also not played a single second for the team this season.

In addiction to Coutinho’s strike actions, he asked not to be included in the Uefa Champions League Squad.

ALSO SEE: Sanchez to return ahead of Liverpool clash

Legends of Liverpool like Gerrard have already stated how hard it would be to keep the Brazilian from joining Barca. “Its mostly a big dream for young lads from that region to play for a Club like Barca”.

Now that is is clear that Coutinho wants to be happy elsewhere, it is important that the Liverpool board let’s him go. Setting the Monday deadline is a way of telling Barca to come to ground with a mouthwatering offer. An offer that can’t be refused, otherwise they will close to the door.

The Reds are hoping on doing a quick business with the money that will come of the Coutinho deal before Thursday deadline.

They hope to sign Arsenal’s 24 years old Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain. Wenger has already come to terms with the reality that be may not have his winger after the close of the transfer window.

Monday and Tuesday is key for all the clubs tied to the Coutinho deal. As Liverpool would seek to replace their talisman, Arsenal seeks to provide that replacement to Liverpool and use their money to strengthen their Monaco’s Thomas Lemar bid. The Gunners boss Arsene Wenger has not given up hope of signing Monaco winger Thomas Lemar, 22, and Southampton defender Virgil van Dijk, 26, although it might be next season before they finally complete the defender’s move.

			
			Post Views: 
			111