Less than 24 hours President Muhammadu Buhari returned to Nigeria from London after 103 days medical vacation, an unprecedented thanksgiving service held at Aso Villa Chapel on Sunday.

Members of the congregation expressed joy that after different permutations, President Buhari arrived on Saturday into the warm embrace of family members, aides, Service Chiefs and politicians.

During the Sunday Service at the Chapel,  National Daily learnt that the service was led by the Vice President Yemi Osibajo without his wife while songs were rendered in various Nigerian languages in Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba to give glory and honour to God for healing the President.

It was gathered that the Aso Villa Chapel’s Administrator, Rev Isaac Ambi, presided over the service.

While giving his sermon, Rev. Ambi said, “We want to rejoice with our father, Acting President Yemi Osinbajo, for the safe return of our President and our father, Muhammadu Buhari.




Prayers of thanksgiving were also offered in the three major languages by the immediate-past Chairman of the Federal  Civil Service Commission (FCSC), Deaconess Juan Ayo; Reverend Ambi and Mr King Opuru.




ALSO SEE: Why Buhari suddenly changed his mind after insisting he’d obey doctors’ instruction


In his sermon entitled: “What is New for a Christian,” Rev Ambi, urged everyone who has accepted Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour to continue to live according to the dictate of Christ.

Citing John 15:1-11 and Psalm 23 in the Holy Bible to buttress his sermon said “A Christian life is a matter of relationship; knowing the rules and the regulation. So what is your relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ?

“We are supposed to have a kind of relationship that draws our strength from Jesus Christ,” he said.

“As soon as we receive Christ, we will experience the great exchange according to 2 Corinthians 32. So you have a new position because Jesus has taken the centre stage in your life and that is why a Christian must not engage in shady deals.

2 Corinthians 5:17 says if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature,” he reiterated.



			
			PV: 
			0