Share this on WhatsApp



By NWADIKE UGOCHUKWU, Port Harcourt
The Deputy Governor of Rivers State Dr. Ipalibo Harry,   has described Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike as the “Joshua of our time,” appealing to Rivers people to discountenance the criticisms of the APC and former Governor Rotimi Amaechi which she said are the antics of a drowning politicians. 
Banigo said it is unfortunate that rather than applaud Governor Wike for sticking out his neck against all odds to defend the interest of the Rivers people, some politicians in the cloak of the APC have decided to launch a campaign of calumny against the Governor.
 “Let right thinking Rivers People Judge this. A Governor who decides to promote the independence of the Judiciary by building houses for Judges to retire to, a Governor who came to open the Courts that were placed under lock and keys for over a year, a Governor that  followed due process in the appointment of Chief Judges, a Governor who provided cars for Judges and Magistrates, constructed new buildings for the Judiciary, a Governor who releases the budget of the Judiciary as a first line charge for the Judiciary to have financial autonomy and a former governor who shut the doors of the Judiciary for over one year, who is better,” Dr. Banigo asked.
ALSO SEE: Lagos PDP: Call Bode George to order, Adewale urges BOT Chairman
She said It’s unfortunate that former Governor Amaechi, who is one of the greatest beneficiaries of the judiciary, turned out to be the greatest critic of the judiciary “how else can one explain his criticism of Hon. Justice Walter Onnoghen for coming to perform the Ground Breaking Ceremony of Judges Quarters in Port Harcourt last week” The Deputy Governor stressed.
She said in other States of the Federation those who lost elections have come to terms with reality and are joining hands with the Government of the day to foster unity and development.
The Deputy Governor who applauded the Governor’s revocation of the Certificate of Occupancy of Novotel for allowing its facilities to be used for electoral manipulations which according to her could lead to a breakdown of law and order said this action would serve as deterrent to those who want to cause crisis in the State, Stressing that the peace and security of the Rivers people is not negotiable.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment