Share this on WhatsApp

By Chioma Obinagwam

Foremost African financial institution, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GTBank) has reaffirmed its commitment to address the challenges of autistic children.

Managing Director (MD) of the bank, Segun Agbaje made this pledge in honour of the 7th edition of its annual autism conference held in Lagos, recently.

He said: “Over the past six editions of this conference, we have made tremendous achievements in amplifying the national awareness of Autism Spectrum Disorders and increasing the expert assistance available to people living with Autism.”

“This year, we are going several steps forward to address the dynamic communication and social needs of children living with Autism as they transit into adulthood,” he added.

This year’s conference, themed “Childhood to Adulthood: Communication and Social Development,” he noted, creates conversations and develop resources which address the dynamic needs of people living with Autism right from their childhood through adulthood.

 He further stated: “Aware that we are a voice for people who don’t have a voice, we will continue to support children living with Autism as well as their parents, teachers and care givers so that through us, the world can hear them.”

ALSO SEE: Market Cap: GTbank, Zenith lead

 In 2016, the bank stated that the 6th edition of the Autism Conference had over 1,500 participants over the two-day period, more than triple the number which attended the inaugural conference.

Since 2009, the Autism Awareness Conference has been a core part of GTBank’s Orange Ribbon Initiative, an advocacy program designed to support people with developmental disabilities and special needs, especially Autisim Spectrum Disorders (ASD).

GTBank is a Nigerian financial institution that has maintained a defined Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy since its inception in 1990. The Bank actively supports numerous programmes across Africa that positively affect Infant and Maternal Healthcare, Education, the Art, Community Development and the Environment.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment