After about two years as the Commissioner of Police in Lagos state, CP Fatai Owoseni has been removed by the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris.

In his place, Imohimi Edgar, has been appointed as the new Commissioner of Police.
Before his appointment, Edgar, who was promoted recently, was in-charge-of Operations, in Lagos State.

He supervised the onslaught against the attacks by Badoo boys, militants and cult groups in Ikorodu which has calmed the level of insecurity in that axis.

National Daily learnt that Edgar was enlisted into the Nigeria Police Force, as a cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police, on February 2, 1986. He has served in various commands and formations of the NPF within the country especially in Lagos.

He graduated from the University of Jos in 1984; and a master degree in Public and International Affairs at the University of Lagos in 2004.

A well breed in Community and Intelligence Gathering Policing, enabling him in organising the first Community Policing summits in Ikeja GRA, Lagos State.

Edgar, served as the Divisional Police Officer of Shomolu Police Division, Seme Police Division, Ikeja and Surelere Police Divisions, between the year 2003 and 2011, as a Chief Superintendent of Police, before he was promoted and appointed  the Assistant Commissioner of Police, ACP, in-charge-of the Area A, Command, Lagos.

He also has a diploma degree in Police Science besides a certificate of National Security for Nigeria Defense Intelligence, at  the Centre of Strategic Studies,  Galilee International Management Institute Israel and the Defense Intelligence College Abuja in 2015.

The new CP Edgar of Lagos State also attended several courses organised by the Department For International Development, (DFID), United Kingdom, in Lagos, Awka, Anambra States and Staff College Jos, Plateau State, making him Community Policing in Nigeria.

Edgar through his community policing experience, mobilised a joint security operation, involving members of the Oodua Progress Congress, (OPC), Ikorodu Local Vigilante, (Oyebo), the Departments of State Security, (DSS), Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps, ‎traditionalists and some  local chiefs in Ikorodu, in tackling the menace of the Badoo cult group in Ikorodu.

Badoo boys had killed several people in Ikorodu and Ogijo areas of Lagos and Ogun State respectively in recent times.

He was also instrumental in the successful rescue of the six kidnapped students, of Lagos Model College, Igbonla, Epe, who were abducted on May 25, 2017, by gunmen who invaded the school.

			
			PV: 
			0