Share this on WhatsApp



The Movement Against Corruption (MAC) a coalition of civil society organisation staged a rally to drive home need for a corrupt free-Nigeria.
The team of placard wielding activists demand for a decisive action against corruption,with different  inscriptions such as “kill corruption now”,  “corruption is cancerous, kill it now”, “Nigerians are suffering because of corruption”, and red cards to indicate eviction for corruption, the group stated that it was prepared to develop and execute practical strategies geared towards the prevention and eradication of all forms of corrupt practices and abuse of office, in both public and private sectors in the country.
It said that as a result of corruption, the country has been debased, noting that its consequences gave rise to the various crimes in the country.
“We can no longer ignore the prevailing mass poverty, hunger, unemployment, decayed medical and educational systems, poor infrastructure, epileptic power supply and absence of social services, which are indicators of the damaging effects of corruption in Nigeria.
“Nigerians have suffered immeasurably from corruption and the time to give corruption a red card is now.
“We appeal to Nigerians to join us in this crusade to completely eliminate this cancer worm that has eaten deep into the fabric of our nation”, the organisation said in a joint statement.
Various institutions such as a the national assembly, the judiciary, amongst others, according to the group, have failed in their efforts to stem the menace.
 
The rally, which had in attendance various groups – rights activists, youths organisations, NGOs, corps members, amongst others, commence their rally from Ikeja to Alausa the State Assembly and governor’s office.
In response to the rally, representative of the government, Commissioner for Special Duties and External Relations, Hon. Seye Oladapo, stated that corruption is not only inherent in public and private sectors, but also in religious bodies, said the crusade would be supported by the government and will be taken to every nook and cranny of the state.
He assured the government under the leadership of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode-led administration would practically defend the course to rid the country of the menace.
He further joined voices with the movement to chant solidarity song and raising the red card to signal his allegiance to the course.
MAC is a coalition of over 50 CSOs with its committee chaired by Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin and was launched about two weeks ago in Lagos, with a sole mandate to eradicate corruption in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment