Share this on WhatsApp



Sulieman Abba Umar, 15, who was abducted on January 6, 2014 in Kado area of Abuja after the close of school by unidentified persons has finally been reunited with his Mother through the help of Facebook.
National Daily gathered that his family searched for him — in Nasarawa, Kano, Abuja and Kaduna states — to no avail.
Umar said after his abduction by unidentified persons, “I regained consciousness only to find myself on a pile of corpses by a beach, some with missing heads or limbs. I was terrified”.
The teenager said he had to work menial jobs, like bricklaying, to survive.
He later started visiting a football viewing centre where he met one Muhammed who took him in.
According to him, one of the boys he met at Mohammed’s place advised him to search for his parents on Facebook.
He said he found his mother’s Facebook page but there was no response to his friend request which led him to try adding their mutual friends — and one of his cousins accepted.
Suleiman, said when he told his cousin who he was, he thought he was a fraudster but later reluctantly sent him his mom’s number.
Recalling how she found her son after three years of missing, Binta, said she was asleep when his call came in. “To my shock, I heard Suleiman stammering at the other end. As I heard his voice, I knew it was him, and I began to cry, and he joined in,” she said.
Binta said although it was 1am in the morning, she could not wait to get to Lagos — having lived with the pain of losing him for three years. “It was past 1:00am and I couldn’t wait to get to Lagos. I reached out to agents for flight tickets, to no avail, as virtually all the morning flights had been booked,” she said.
ALSO SEE: Ikeja magistrate Court slams N1.5m bail on travel agent
“In the morning, I rushed to the airport having finally got a flight for noon. As I was doing this, I reached out to Katsina Liaison Office in Lagos to help, as well.
U“He’s totally changed, he’s now a man, and darker as a result of hardships he’s been through.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment