Caption: President of AKISCOM, Chief Elijah Ifot in the middle flanked by the General Secretary, Engr. Emmanuel Bassey and the first Vice President.
        Share this on WhatsApp

Says Akwa Ibom Community in Lagos remain united




By Odunewu Segun
President of the Akwa Ibom State Community in Lagos (AKISCOM), Chief Elijah Ifot has denied the allegation leveled against him by some faceless individuals that he embezzled a sum of N40 million belonging to the socio-political group, AKISCOM.
Chief Ifot who made the clarification at a press conference organised by the group in Lagos explained that the spurious stories were the handiwork of a few members with satanic intents, who have continued to employ many unprintable methods to discredit him.
He explained that at a recent meeting of stakeholders of the community held at the State Liaison in Lagos and jointly presided over by the Liaison Officer, Mr. Micheal Ekpenyong, and the Governor’s Special Representative, Elder Sam Bassey, the governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, directed members of the State Community in Lagos to embrace peace, stressing that that AKISCOM must not be destroyed by divisive tendencies.
He was however surprised to read in a magazine being circulated in the State that he embezzled about N40 million from the coffers of the community.
ALSO SEE: Boko Haram, traffic snarls make Lagos least liveable on earth, says report
The AKISCOM president explained that the community generates an average income of about N2.5 million annually, and wondered how he embezzled N40 million during his six years at the helms of affairs as alleged by his detractors.
The AKISCOM leader also dismissed the rumours that the cost of AKISCOM’s new parcel of land was exaggerated at N40 million, stressing that the land deal was transparently transacted through a well-known firm of solicitors and Notaries Public-Bisi Olateru Olagbegi and Associates.
While shedding more light on the source of the fund, Chief Ifot told said the money was a gift from the former governor of the Akwa Ibom State, Chief Godswill Akpabio. “While in office, former governor Akpabio gave AKISCOM N50m to get a good property where we could call our own instead of renting venues for our meetings, and that process we have started.”
He added that all the land documents, including official receipts, and people involved in the deal are available for scrutiny and confirmation, and challenged any member with contrary information to contradict him.
Chief Ifot assured the entire Akwa Ibom Community in Lagos and at home that the community remains one strong united entity, adding that the executive would continue to build on the good things it has achieved so far.
Meanwhile, the General Secretary of AKISCOM, Engr. Emmanuel Bassey stated that in line with the resolution adopted at the stakeholders meeting, the electoral committee had been constituted to conduct the 2017 AKISCOM General Elections on Saturday, October 21, 2017 and had already articulated election guidelines for consideration and ratification by the General Assembly.
He also added that plans are underway to hold AKISCOM Anuual General Meeting on Saturday, September 16, 2017 to celebrate the 30th anniversary of AKISCOM and Akwa Ibom State as well as to give honour to deserving individuals who have contributed to the growth of AKISCOM over the years.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment