Share this on WhatsApp
By Boluwatife Ezekiel Olaleye
The death toll from the Lagos boat accident has risen to 12.
The Managing Director of Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA), Abisola Kamson, attributed the mishap to overloading of passengers on a Banana Boat and the operation of an illegal jetty.
The Lagos State Waterways Authority on Sunday confirmed twelve people dead in the boat mishap which occurred at the weekend in Ilashe area of the State.
In a statement issued by the Managing Director of Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA), Engr Abisola Kamson, the State Government attributed the unfortunate mishap to overloading of passengers on a Banana Boat and operation of illegal jetty.
Kamson revealed that four victims of the mishap who were rescued are already receiving treatment at a nearby hospital, while search and rescue operation was still on-going.
While commiserating with the families of those that lost their loved ones, the State Government said the mishap had again brought to the fore the need for the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) to respect the recent verdict of the Court of Appeal which upheld the powers of the State Government to control its intra-inland waterways.
ALSO SEE: Kogi: Pestilence kills more locals, spread to more communities 
“We sympathize with the families of the deceased as nine lives were lost in the mishap and four people receiving treatment in the hospital.
“The LASWA rescue team has been on ground and search is still on-going. This brings to fore again the need for NIWA to allow the judgement of the Appeal Court granting Lagos Control of her waterways to take effect without hindrance.
“It is a matter for regret that ever since the judgement was pronounced, NIWA has ejected all State Water Guards monitoring standards from all Federal owned Jetties. In spite of this, the Government of Lagos State aligns to the safety of citizens on the waterways. All Lagosians are enjoined to wear standard life jackets at all times on our Waterways,” Kamson said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment