Share this on WhatsApp

By Boluwatife Ezekiel Olaleye

They may be lovers of fame, be the type that love everything flashy but the Kardashians sure do have the means to make incredible gestures and they have done it again after making a whooping donation to the victims of Hurricane Harvey which has left the whole of Texas devastated.



Sources close to TMZ said that Kim, Kris, Khloe, Kendall, Kylie and Kourtney have donated $500,000 (£387,000) to the Red Cross and The Salvation Army on Tuesday.
The Kardashians have been reportedly touched by the ‘courage and bravery’ of those in Houston as rain continues to fall on the Texas state.
The move follows Kevin Hart’s appeal for more celebrities to donate after he pledged $25,000 (£19,350) to the fund.
In his video, Hart calls out The Rock, Steve Harvey, Chris Rock, Dave Chappelle, Jay-Z, Justin Timberlake, Jerry Seinfeld and Beyoncé.
The latter responded, offering to ‘help as many’ victims of the natural disaster as she can.
The former Destiny’s Child singer, from Houston, said: “I remain in constant prayer for those affected and for the rescuers who have been so brave and determined to do so much to help.”
ALSO SEE: Hundred caught up in ‘500-year flood’ after Harvey dumps rain on Texas
She added that she was working with her charity and her pastor to ‘implement a plan to help’.
Earlier on Tuesday, two major dams just outside the city began to overflow as Hurricane Harvey pushed reservoirs past capacity.
Since downgraded from its hurricane status, Harvey was the worst storm to hit the southern American state in 50 years with almost 50 inches of rain falling in a four-day period.
Engineers have been attempting to ease the pressure on the Addicks and Barker dams, which control the amount of water in the Buffalo Bayou – the main river into Houston.
At least nine people have died, including six members of the same family killed after their van was swept away by rising floodwater.
President Donald Trump and first lady Melania went to visit Texas.

In a previous tweet, the President had thanked the citizens of the county for their incredible efforts during a difficult time.
He wrote: “HISTORIC rainfall in Houston, and all over Texas. Floods are unprecedented, and more rain coming. Spirit of the people is incredible. Thanks!”


HISTORIC rainfall in Houston, and all over Texas. Floods are unprecedented, and more rain coming. Spirit of the people is incredible.Thanks!
– Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 27, 2017


It’s unsure how many people have been affected by the flooding, but some 2.1m people live in the city.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment