Share this on WhatsApp



Nigerian aviation industry, the National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE), has threatened to ground the operations of Aero Contractors over its dismissal of 60 percent of its workforce, in violation of the airline’s agreement with the union.
The President of NAAPE, Abdenego Galadima, in an interview with journalists on Sunday at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos, alleged that hundreds of workers who were laid off by the airline were yet to be paid their pittances by the management as agreed to with the unions in March this year.
Galadima said that none of the agreements entered with the unions leading to the sacking of hundreds of engineers and pilots were abided to by the management.
He accused the receiver manager of Aero Contractors of unilaterally throwing the affected workers out of the airline without paying them their redundancy benefits, describing it as “wicked impunity” which would not be allowed to stand.
He declared that the strike would commence as soon as the NAAPE finished consultations with other unions in the industry, the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and other affiliated bodies.
Galadima insisted that the intervention of AMCON further plunged the oldest airline in the country into more crises, saying that the mismanagement of resources continued unabated while more questionable transactions were enacted by those appointed by the corporation.
 “Worse still, the company’s poor financial health meant that the redundant employees could only be offered pittance. We were left with no choice but to accept a worse possible redundancy package for our members. We did this to demonstrate our desire to see the airline through the prevailing travails.”
ALSO SEE: Flood: Trapped passengers lament worrisome situation at airport car park
It would be recalled that Aero Contractors’ management had sacked 60 percent of its workforce over redundancy claims earlier in the year.
The management said it took the decisive decision following inadequate equipment (aircraft), adding that it could not continue to pay high wages to workers who had no jobs to do at the airline.
Before the layoffs, the airline had a staff of over 1000 workers.
The statement added that it was confronted with high operational challenges, as most of its aircraft were not airworthy while some of its aircraft were due for C-Checks. 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment