Dr. Tunde Bakare, Senior Pastor of the Latter Rain Assembly, Ogba, Lagos, has chided former tow presidents, Olusegun Obasanjo and goodluck Jonathan, as well as President Muhammadu Buhari for failure to provide requisite leadership capable of solving Nigeria’s numerous socio-economic problems from within.  Bakare, on Sunday, during a sermon in his church, articulated that twhen people leave their country in search for solutions where things are fixed because they could not fix their problems, they remain slaves.
The clergyman bemoaned that President Muhammadu Buhari, and former presidents Olusegun Obasanjo, Umaru Yar’Adua, Goodluck Jonathan are more of colonial masters.
Bakare, Buhari’s running mate at the 2007 presidential election, was of the view that Obasanjo, who spent billions of naira on power with nothing to show for it yet, and no one is asking questions, is a colonial master.
Bakare had declared, “Obasanjo spent eight years in power, spent huge sums on power and there is no candle from it. Nobody is asking him questions over that investment. Obasanjo is a colonial master. Jonathan is a colonial master. Yar’Adua is a colonial master. Buhari is a colonial master.”
Bakare observed that when he was invited to preach in a Church in the United States, the congregation lamented that they found themselves in the country because their forefathers were brought as slaves, but he challenged them by asking, if they got to the US as slaves, why couldn’t they return to their original land?
ALSO SEE: “I am President-in-waiting”, says Fayose
Evaluating incumbent ministers for their inability to deliver work or housing, Bakare contended that whereas the apparent excuse is that there is no money to execute projects, yet, the ministers have continued to earn salaries. “Work, housing, we have not seen. Is it their fault? There is no money but they are earning salaries,” he remarked.
Bakare further asserted that if former military president, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, and others can now be advocating restructuring, then, it is clear that the time to restructure the country has come, arguing: “until you restructure, nothing can work. Until you restructure, you can do nothing. Put the cart before the horse, it can’t work.”
The erstwhile legal practitioner converted to pastor, chided the North over opposition to restructuring.  “Why is the North suddenly afraid of restructuring? It is because they know that they will suddenly become desolate and bankrupt,” Bakare had declared.

			
			Post Views: 
			246