Share this on WhatsApp

Bishop Ginika Obi, in charge of the City of Liberation and Comfort Ministry in Enugu, has been arrested by the Enugu State Police Command for fraudulently duping members of the public to the tune of N500m.




Bishop Obi was said to have  allegedly defrauded members of the public of over N500 million through an alleged financial nongovernmental Organisation (NGO) known as “Build Your Generational Organisation.”

National Daily gathered that the Bishop made his victims to invest into the scheme with a view to reaping huge financial returns.

It was also learnt that since people invested huge sums, there was no return on their investment hence they besieged the police station with different complaints.

The Police Public Relations Officer of Enugu State Command, Ebere Amaraizu, said the suspect disappeared when he got wind of it that the police was looking for him.

Bishop Obi was said to have disappeared with his family members and eight pastors who were said to be involved in the fraud for several months.

Amaraizu said on Monday that Bishop Obi, was trailed by the police for three months before he was arrested in a hotel where he his himself.



ALSO SEE: Police find AK-47 rifle in an abandoned bag



“Bishop Ginika Obi of City of Liberation and Comfort Ministry has been arrested and he is now helping police operatives of the Commissioner of Police Enugu Monitoring Unit in its investigation.

Bishop Obi (suspect) hails from Umuaku in Uli community of Ihiala Local Government Area in Anambra state.

National Daily gathered that he was trailed based on intelligence information to a hotel at Amechi Road off Agbani Road in Enugu where he was arrested.

The PPRO explained that “The suspect (bishop) disclosed that the amount he fraudulently taken from people was not up to N500 million but N186 million.

Some of the victims; Blessing Edekin a widow, Nnenna Okonkwo and Chidiebere Okolo, narrated that the bishop defrauded them and disappeared without any trace until he was arrested by the police.

The Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr. Danmallam Mohammed, said on completion of full investigation, he would be charged to court to face the laws.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment