By ANDREW OJIEZEL

The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) has preached peaceful coexistence among Nigerians as Muslims in the country set to celebrate Eid-el-Kabir, tomorrow, Friday, 1st of September.
 
In a message, the President, Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama and the Secretary General, Comrade (Barr) Musa-Lawal Ozigi appealed to all Nigerians to be self-disciplined and law abiding in order for us to achieve the desired development we crave for.
 
Wishing Muslims happy celebration, TUC stressed that “We are immensely grateful to Allah for His mercy in guiding us as individuals and even as a nation.
 
“We have a challenge in our hands as it is common to other nations of the world. But we can overcome, if we lead a selfless life and be willing to work together. This is the time, as a country that we must submit ourselves to the will of Allah in the belief that that He alone can help us overcome our challenges. We expect that this celebration should humble every Muslim in particular and Nigerians in general in their service to God, and to humanity.”



ALSO SEE: FG declares Friday, Monday public holidays


The union lamented that “impoverished masses of the country are going through an excruciating experience presently and it beholves the wealthy and the privileged Nigerians to empathise with the needy. Painfully and regrettably the order of the day has been flagrant transfer of our commonwealth to foreign banks rather than making it useful for the nation where it is really needed.
 
This is the time for the leadership at all levels to have a rethink and redraw a workable roadmap capable of transforming the economy of the country.
 
“The Congress desires a country that is peaceful and development conscious. To achieve this the youth have to be gainfully engaged.  An army of idle youths portends great danger for any society. While we celebrate with our Muslim brothers and sisters, we must be committed to sharing and caring for one another as Allah has directed. Happy Sallah.”

 


			
			PV: 
			0