Share this on WhatsApp







Following last week’s discoveries in Lagos of dens of kidnappers and ritualists and the hacking to death of some of the suspects, the Lagos State Police Command on Monday disclosed the arrest of 30 people suspected to have mobbed the kidnappers.

Making this revelation, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni admitted that the suspects were arrested because when they were asked to sheath their sword, they refused to leave the suspects that were smoked out of the tunnels.

National Daily recalls that two sites marked as kidnappers’ dens were discovered at Ajala, in Ojokoro along the Lagos/Abeokuta Expressway on the 8th August, and another at Ile-Zik at Ikeja on the 9th August leading to the setting ablaze of two suspects.




CP Fatai Owoseni said that the 30 suspects were arrested at Ile-Zik and Ajala after an appeals to them by the police to disperse the place fell on deaf ears, noting they had no option that to arrest them.

Owoseni explained, “We have in our custody 30 suspects that were picked from these places and they will be arraigned today (Monday), for disturbing public peace and attacking police officers on duty.






ALSO SEE: Lagos Lawmaker, others condemns jungle justice


“It will no longer be bark alone now, but we will also bite. As we arraign the suspects, we are emphasizing that security agencies will no longer fold their arms and let the people turn the command to a lawless place.

‘We are also appealing to residents that anytime they observe any suspicious movements or identify locations as a place for criminal purpose, please report to security agencies.


“We assure members of the public that complaints of no response and late response from emergency numbers will be addressed.

“You can also reach senior police officers through distributed numbers. We will ensure that any suspect on whom information is given will be investigated diligently and prosecuted with good evidence, “he said.

“We need vital evidence and witnesses to testify like they did in the case of Ajala. Anyone that has been a victim of rape or any attack should please show up so that we can put the evidence together for a successful prosecution,” he reiterated.













Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment