By Ediale Kingsley

Journalists reported the death of a Nigerian Arsenal fan when they lost to Stoke City last weekend.

The news was about the father of three going home to take a pee as the stress gathered. He went home, took a leak and returned to continue the match. He didn’t make it through. He slumped and died.

While Stoke went on to win that game by a single goal from Jese, It was today’s defeat that got the worst of the Gunner’s fans. They got bashed by 4 unreplied goals.

The fashion by which they fall is also crazy. You’ve got to have some pity for the fans. Difficult times for them.

Wenger starts a first 11 without their main danger man, Lacazette. He also starts the second half without their talisman. Even though they were already two goals down.

ALSO SEE: Enyeama agrees to return to Eagles, cedes captaincy to Mikel

Naturally, you’d think the Arsenal manager should introduce Giroud, Lacazette and Walcott. But he doesn’t. And I have a made up theory for that.

Perhaps Wenger plays sport bet. And has tipped Welbeck to score. Imagine the 4.5 juicy odds attached to the occurrence of a Welbeck goal. Match that thought to $5000 stake, then you just may understand Wenger’s preference above Lacazette (1.2) and Giroud (1.4) odds. The only problem is while the coach has invested on Welbeck to score, the player must have staked on him not scoring.

This theory is the only logical reason to justify Wenger’s decisions.

Days like this excuses fans decision to divorce from supporting Arsenal to another club. An Arsenal fan once said he is too progressive in thinking to be a fan of Arsenal. So instead of taking a pee, he took a leave. Today he is three years into supporting Madrid.

Salah had a superb game of his life. Every red player was a splendid controller and dribbler today. From Moreno to Wijnaldum, Matip, Lovren, Can and Henderson played like they were machines running on some engine oil. As Firmino and Mane danced above Arsenal.

			
			Post Views: 
			301