Share this on WhatsApp

By Chioma Obinagwam

Access Bank Group’s audited half year (H1) results released to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has shown impressive growth in key financial indicators.

A review of the result indicate that the  company’s Gross Earnings of N246.6 billion in the period under review grew by 42 per cent from N174.1 billion in the corresponding period of 2016.

Consequently, the growth in Gross Earnings was driven by 66 per cent increase in interest income on the back of continued growth in the Bank’s core business and 34 per cent non-Interest Income underlined by strong Forex(FX) income on the Bank’s trading portfolio.

The Bank’s Profit before Tax (PBT) also showed an increase of 18 per cent from N43.9 billion recorded during the same period in 2016.

Profit After Tax (PAT) grew by a similar margin from N33.6 billion in 2016 to N39.5 billion in H1 2017.

Similarly, the Bank posted 29 per cent growth in Operating Income to N167.5 billion from N130.2 billion in 2016.

Total Asset was flat at ₦3.46 trillion as at June 2017 in comparison to ₦3.48 trillion in December 2016.

Access Bank’s Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) remained solid at 21.6 per cent, well above the regulatory minimum.

Commenting on the result, Group Managing Director(GMD) Herbert Wigwe said, “Access Bank’s performance in the first half of the year reflects the strength and sustainability of our business as well as the effective execution of our strategy.”

According to him, the Group maintained stable asset quality, recording Non performing Loan (NPL) and Cost of Risk Ratios (CRR) of 2.5 per cent and 1.0 per cent, respectively.

ALSO SEE:  BSN struggles to fund operations amidst 80 million Christians

Following the release of the half year results, the Bank also declared an interim dividend of 25k to its shareholders.

“We maintained stable asset quality, recording non-performing loans and cost of risk ratios of 2.5 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively and wound down on our foreign currency exposures as a deliberate strategy to de-risk the business. As we cautiously grow our loan portfolio in light of macro realities, we will continue to uphold our proactive risk management principles in order to maintain asset quality within acceptable limits. Whilst balancing our appetite for growth and profitability, we remain committed to maintaining solid liquidity and capital ratios,” Wigwe added.

Further analysis of the result indicated a 38 per cent increase year on year(y/y) to N105.1 billion compared N75.9 billion recorded in H1 2016 and 34.8 per cent quarter on quarter (q/q), driven majorly by the highly inflationary environment and devaluation impact on cost.

“Our retail expansion drive led to investments in our channels, distribution network, service quality and brand enhancement. These, as well as AMCON charges resulted in higher operating expenses in the period. We continue to, however, intensify the implementation of our cost reduction initiatives in order to improve the bottom-line despite high inflationary environment.

In view of the recovering macro, our focus remains growing the retail franchise through digital expansion to enable diversified earnings as well as continuous and proactive risk management as we selectively grow risk assets. We will remain resilient in the execution of our bold strategy for increased growth and profitability whilst maximizing shareholder value in 2017 and beyond,” Wigwe noted.
Share this on WhatsApp