Share this on WhatsApp

The House Committee Chairman Information, Strategy, Publicity and Security, Hon.Tunde Braimoh has faulted the statement credited to President Muhammmadu Buhari’s aide on the rodents found in the President’s office describing it as pedestrian and clear embarrassment.

Hon.Braimoh member, Lagos State House of Assembly representing Kosofe constituency II  told newsmen in Lagos that such comment debased the Presidency.

The outspoken lawmaker took the stance while commenting on the reports widely circulated  in the media that  the President’s Media Adviser, Garba Shehu said Buhari would conduct official duties from home owing to the claim that rodents damaged his office while he was on medical vacation in London.

It would be recalled that Shehu was reportedly told AFP that rodents damaged furniture and air conditioning fittings in the president’ s official Abuja office while he was in London receiving treatment.

Braimoh counseled President’s media handlers to treat the first citizen and personae wielding the powers of the most important office in Nigeria with the reverence and veneration it deserves.

“The President working from the office in his residence is not exactly a new or unfamiliar phenomenon neither does it portend any grave or strange omen.

“In any case , the office in the residence was not built for the fun of it and if the President uses it , it is a justification of its function and provision.

ALSO SEE:  Buhari signs extradition treaty, others to reinvigorate anti-graft war

“It becomes superfluous, superficial and verbose of  the media office to talk so tersely and scantily of the country’s highest office as to say it was infested by rodents.

“It is a national embarrassment which smirks of systemic failure and abject degradation.

“I think it would have simply sufficed if the handlers had said the office needed to be renovated , cleaned up and made more compliant to the personal health and hygiene requirements of Mr President.

“Such condescending statements as the President ‘s office being infested by rodents is at the best unnecessary and at the worst pedestrian,” he said.

According to him, without doubt, the office is the pivot around which the wheel of the country rotates and it is the mirror against which we are reflected.

Buhari, who left Nigeria on May 7 for the second round of his medical treatment in London returned on Saturday.

Buhari, who addressed the nation on Monday, had transmitted to the National Assembly a letter intimating both Houses of his resumption to duty.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment