Share this on WhatsApp



By AKANNI HAMDALAT OPEYEMI
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), ‎has disclosed that it is still investigating former Governor Sullivan Chime of Enugu State and Miss Rita Mbah, Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) 2015 campaign team in Enugu State.
The Commission also said that it has recovered N60 million from the N450 million of the 2015 PDP campaign fund from Enugu State.
National Daily gathered that EFCC South East Zonal Head of Operations, Mr. Johnson Babalola, disclosed this in Enugu while briefing the press on the activities of the commission, explaining that the claims by former Governor Chime after he decamped to APC that he has no case with EFCC was false and unfounded. He said, “Don’t listen to what politicians tell you. Chime and Rita Mbah are suspects and under investigation of the EFCC.
We are doing our job professionally irrespective of whatever political party anyone of them belongs. Crime has no expiry date, those money remaining with the two suspects over the 2015 campaign fund will be recovered”, he said.
ALSO SEE: Diezani fights back, denies stealing billions
Babalola while responding to PDP illegal campaign fund recovered by the commission in the South East states said EFCC is recovering money on monthly basis. “We have not recovered all the money yet but we are doing that on monthly basis. States like Anambra and Imo are where we have problems in the recovery and would subsequently take them to court. Yes, we will take Anambra and Imo PDP to court when court resumes in September”, he said. Babalola added that the commission is also investigating abandoned road projects and Independent Power Projects in the South East with the aim of prosecuting defaulting contractors. “South East has the most deplorable roads network in the country, projects running into billions of naira abandoned are under investigation by the commission, any contractor found wanting of abandonment would be charged to court.
“We are fighting lots of war, there are people who do not want us to succeed they are those claiming that the commission is on doing media trial because they don’t want people to know how much they have stolen”, he said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment