Share this on WhatsApp



 
German luxury auto maker, Mercedes-Benz has again redefined effortless driving by introducing an enhanced new Lingoatronic voice control system for navigation use and entertainment in its new E-Class.
In a statement made available to National Daily by Weststar Associates Ltd, the authorized general distributors of the brand in Nigeria, the new E-class features a new Audio 200 entry-level radio that comes with a larger display, new infotainment software and the option of a widescreen cockpit.
Major highlights include the new Mercedes-Benz SD map navigation, which turns the radio to a high-end navigation system, online access and car telephony with fast LTE technology, additional interior appointment options and ambient lighting with dynamic light scenarios. 
The new E-class comes with a host of improved details such as audible feedback from the Touch Control buttons on the multifunction steering wheel for even more intuitive operation. 
Other controlled functions include the rear window heater and various comfort and lighting functions. Another new feature enables the driver to call up a wide range of information – such as the date the next service is due, the current speed limit, the vehicle’s range or the current date.
ALSO SEE: Mercedes Benz world PR Beauty Business unveils Jazz Attah as official artist
Another new feature lends the voice control system from Mercedes-Benz an appealing human touch. The system avoids constantly reacting to a command with the same answer, instead varying its response between three or four synonymous sentences. This lends communications with the system a pleasant and almost human touch.
In addition to the standard-specification Audio 20 USB multimedia system and the high-end COMAND Online multimedia system, Mercedes-Benz will be offering a new variant of the Audio 20 system in the E with a larger 12.3-inch media display (basic variant 8.4-inch) and new infotainment software in the future. 
The LINGUATRONIC Voice control is an evolutionary leap forward as it comes with a wide variety of control options and an additional eleven new languages. For example, when the vehicle is equipped accordingly, blower level, temperature and seat heating can be controlled conveniently by voice command, with no need for drivers to take their hands off the steering wheel or their eyes off the traffic. 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment