Share this on WhatsApp



By Boluwatife Ezekiel Olaleye
31-year-old Nigerian Uber Driver identified as Hammed Olojo has been rescued from committing suicide by the operatives of the Rapid Response Squad patrolling the Third Mainland Bridge after he was seen attempting to jump into the lagoon.
The driver who reportedly drove himself to the famous Lagos Bridge in a Uber Toyota Corolla saloon car, belonging to Kalejaiye Oluwaseyi, had written a short note and left it in the car before he was stopped by the officers who monitored him a while before walking up to him.
Confessing to almost committing the said act, Olojo, an ex-convict disclosed he was owing N10,000 in Court 3, Ikeja High Court and also owing the owner of the vehicle N80,000. Further being questioned by RRS Commander, ACP Tunji Disu he revealed that though his wife persuaded him from going ahead with his plan, but his mind was made up and was fed up of everything as he had tried all possible means to survive with no success.
His short note in Yoruba, which was translated into English in the car before leaping into the Lagos Lagoon, reads in part; “I killed myself because of the challenges I have been facing in life. I tried my best and everything has come to nothing”.
ALSO SEE: 6 things to know before hiring Uber
However on his own part, the car owner, Kalejaiye who was at RRS office in company of his wife noted that for two weeks, he had not remitted N40,000 per week lease to him yet and he Kalejaiye, has been paying for the service of the car. He noted that although, he told him to hand over the car last Thursday, at no time did he force him not to drive the car. He noted that he was aware that he had a court case, at no time did he put him under pressure about the car.
In the note which was dated 27th August, 2017 and signed by him, Olojo indicated his phone number and the car owner’s number. Confirming the development, Police PRO stated that the case had been transferred to State Criminal Investigation Department for further investigation.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment