By Boluwatife Ezekiel Olaleye
Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina has denied rumours that the “Return or Resign” protest group led by Charles Oputa, popularly known as Charly Boy, forced President Muhammadu Buhari to return prematurely to the country from his medical vacation in London.
The group has recently conducted a sit out protest at the Unity Fountain, Abuja, at times, having confrontation with security agencies as they demanded the president’s return to country or resign if he could not continue in office.
But early on Saturday morning, the Presidency issued a statement that Buhari would be returning to Nigeria later that day having recovered from his illness.
Femi Adesina, speaking to State House correspondents at the Presidential Wing of the Nnamdi International Airport, Abuja while awaiting the arrival of the president, claimed that Buhari’s return was not influenced by the protest.
He said the president returned to Nigeria to continue with the work he had started adding that the date of Buhari’s return was known to some officials in the Presidency.
ALSO SEE: Buhari returns home after sick leave in UK
“Remember that the acting President held on effectively and they will continue the work together.
“We left the work of announcement with the managers of the acting President”, Adesina said.
Meanwhile, the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has joined other Nigerians to welcome back the President Buhari to the country from his medical sojourn in London.
A statement issued by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, in Abuja on Saturday, expressed the belief that Buhari was healthier now to continue with his job.
The state said: “We believe that Mr President is healthier now to assume his responsibility at the helm of the Country’s affairs.
“We thank the Almighty for saving his life and pray that He grants him better health and understanding on how to rescue our poor economy and relieve Nigerians from the current hardship.”

			
			Post Views: 
			49