Share this on WhatsApp




Hon. Rasheed Makinde the Lawmaker representing Ifako Ijaiye II constituency at the Lagos State House of Assembly has decried the nefarious activities of alleged kidnappers uncovered in his constituency, describing their discovery as a very good development that will help reawaken the need for the people to be their brother’s keepers and take serious playing their role in ensuring security.
The legislator who is at the moment gracing the eight days fidau prayer for the deceased mother of the Governor of the State of Osun, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, noted that as a lawmaker once he returns, he would step up moves to orientate unemployed youths in his constituency about the need to engage themselves positively so as not to be dragged into such fledging devilish enterprise.
According to Makinde, “I thank God for the discovery of this dark haven of the kidnapper’s, though somewhat taken aback that such a thing could happen in an area well secured as Ojokoro, I want to state clearly that no stone will be left unturned to tackle the issue to a conclusive point.
“Our Youths are the ones I will focus more on so as to hinder them being dragged into such illicit act”. Makinde stated.
As at the time of fielding this update, more pictures that tell the tales of a state of pandemonium brewing in the area, the Police officer that trailed the suspects into the tunnel from Obadeyi Bus-Stop towards Ajala is yet to come out.
Earlier Security officials were reported to have uncovered another kidnap den in heart of Ojokoro axis of Lagos, at the moment over 5000 crowds are gathered around a drainway tunnel turned a haven for evil incarnates busy whisking  whole bodied individuals away for God knows what purpose.
      
According eyewitness account  a street sweeper who alerted passersby about the development stated that she heard a voice in the tunnel crying for help while going about her daily official duty.
Many of the security agents who made early call at the scene of the gory tale were unable to access the tunnel earlier today,after much hassle one of the suspect was seized by irate youths in the area and burnt.
At least ten more suspected kidnappers have been apprehended by the security operatives from the site now,aside the individual who was set ablaze earlier today.
The burnt suspect according to report was prodded to reveal the secret about the den but was said to have said that he would prefer to die rather than make any revelation about it.
Heavy gridlock has since build up in the axis and movement has since been greatly hampered.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment