Following the attack on EFCC office at Wuse, and perceived threats around the commission’s boss Ibrahim Magu’s home in Maiduguri, security has been strengthened for the him and his family, including his aged mother.

Some policemen have also been deployed  to Magu’s uncompleted bungalow in Karshi, Abuja.

According to a source the Nation quoted, the last seven months had been tough for Magu because of his refusal to bow to pressure from some high-profile suspects and Politically-Exposed Persons.

The source said the pressure has grave implications on Magu’s and his relations’ safety.
The development has led to the review of Magu’s and most of the key investigators’ security.

“His office was also recently reorganized  in line with the new security model. It is so bad that Magu now keeps his itinerary to himself until the last minute.

“Hitherto, there was no protection for Magu’s aged mother in Maiduguri. But of recent, some suspected elements have been prowling the family house in the Borno State capital and issuing threats to the woman.

“And following the recent raid of Magu’s uncompleted building in Karshi, Abuja  by some suspected agents, the police have deployed in more men for sentry duties.”

“With the invasion of the strategic office of the EFCC in Zone 7, it is evident that we need to strengthen security for all our operatives.”




ALSO SEE: Gunmen attack EFCC headquarters




The group of heavily armed bandits repelled yesterday left a note behind for Ishaku Sharu, a senior investigator with the commission.

Ishaku heads the Foreign Exchange Malpractices Fraud Section, and he is in charge of corruption investigation involving several politically exposed persons and retired military brass hats.

The attack on the Zone 7 office which houses the Commission’s AMCON Desk, Procurement Fraud and Foreign Exchange Malpractices Sections, came few weeks after another investigator, Austin Okwor was shot and wounded by unknown assailants in Port Harcourt, Rivers.









			
			PV: 
			0