Share this on WhatsApp
By OKOSUN DENNIS




Efforts to contain the influx of adulterated petroleum products into the Nigerian market was further reinvigorated as the Nigerian Navy in Lagos handed over a vessel with seven crew members on-board that were arrested to the Economic Financial and Crimes Commission (EFCC) for further investigation and prosecution.

The Commander, Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) BEECROFT, Commodore Maurice Eno, who handed them over at the command in Apapa, Lagos, NNS Beecroft patrol team had intercepted them in the Lagos Safe Anchorage Area (LSAA).

He explained that on the “On 30th June, NNS BEECROFT patrol team intercepted and arrested MT WOLOF around the Lagos Safe Anchorage Area (LSAA).

“At the time of the arrest, MT WOLOF was loaded with about 300 metric tons of product suspected to be illegally refined Automated Gas Oil (AGO) and had seven crew members onboard.

“Investigation revealed that the vessel had no document to support the product it was carrying,” he added.

To confirm the authenticity and genuineness of the product, Cdre Eno reiterated, sample of the product onboard the vessel was taken for laboratory test and the result indicated that the product did not meet the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) specification.

To further deepen investigation, when the product was put through Standard Organization of Nigeria (SON) specification, the result they got also failed SON standards, pointing to the fact that the product was indeed adulterated.


ALSO SEE: Navy hands over 2 vessels, 14 crew to EFCC for prosecution


As a result, National Daily gathered that it became expedite to hand the vessel over to the EFCC for further investigation and possible prosecution,” he said.

Eno reiterated that the navy in its renewed efforts to curb maritime domain of illegalities, would not tolerate any fraudulent activity in the nation’s maritime domain.

He added that Nigerian Navy under the leadership of the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ibas would not tolerate any illegalities in the Nigerian waters pledging zero tolerance for any maritime criminality.

“I advise defaulters to desist from such act or face the wrath of the law while urging citizens to give useful information with a view to exterminating illegal acts,” Cdre Eno said.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment