By AKANNI HAMDALAT OPEYEMI
Forearm Governor of Rivers State and Minister of Transport, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, has blasted incumbent Governor Nyesom Wike over allegations of corruption against him after his eight years tenure in the state.
Amaechi on Tuesday reiterated that he ran a transparent government while he was the Governor of Rivers State.
He decried that the allegation of corruption against him by Governor Wike was false and provocative.
According to him, Governor Wike has been forging and contorting documents and lies just to Defame and vilify him in his desperate bid to portray him as corrupt.
He said: “Wike has nothing concrete to prove his fabricated claims. However, it is now public knowledge that he has been forging and distorting a cache of documents in his frantic efforts to denigrate Amaechi. This forgery and contortion commenced immediately after he assumed office as governor and it is still on-going,” he said.
Amaechi explained that people were shocked some days ago when one Livingstone Wechie, who was purportedly used to accuse him of corruption, confessed that the Government House gave the fake documents to him.
The minister added that the documents used at the commission of inquiring that formed the basis of his indictment were fake. “How can we forget in a hurry when Wike outrageously claimed that he had evidence to prove that the $43million discovered in Ikoyi apartment belongs to Amaechi?” he said.
ALSO SEE: What Saraki, Magu relationship was before Buhari came in
He urged the governor to explain how much he has collected from the Paris Club loan refunds, internally generated revenue and the loans that he took. But, the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Ipalibo Harry, urged the people to discountenance the criticism by Amaechi, who she described as a drowning politician.
She said repeatedly that Amaechi has failed to join hands with the government to develop the state like other politicians who lost the elections in their states. Ipalibo said it was unfortunate that Amaechi has no respect for the judiciary of which he is one of the greatest beneficiaries.
The deputy governor commended Wike’s revocation of the Certificate of Occupancy of Novotel, for allowing its facilities to be used for electoral manipulations. According to her, the action would serve as a deterrent to those who want to cause crisis in the state.

			
			Post Views: 
			47