Share this on WhatsApp
Kogi’s Health Commissioner Saka Audu on Sunday said that the aunknown disease killing locals in the state  has been diagnosed.

The commissioner said those so far diagnosed were found to be suffering from gastroenteritis and malaria.

The state ministry of health also said that the disease killed many people in Okunran, Okoloke and Isanlu-Esa in Yagba West Local Government Area.

“The current information available to us is that the disease actually started six weeks ago in Okoloke village in Yagba West, which is a settlement that is predominantly inhabited by Fulani herdsmen.

“There have been cases of reported deaths following abdominal pain, vomiting and diarrhoea, but the patients who showed signs of illness had since been evacuated and transported to Kogi State Specialist Hospital Lokoja, for better treatment.

ALSO SEE: Kogi: Pestilence kills more locals, spread to more communities

“So far, we have evacuated 39 patients from Okoloke area and only six of them were admitted and have shown significant sign of improvement while others have since been discharged.

“Out of the six that were admitted, three of them were diagnosed of gastroenteritis and the remaining three were just cases of malaria, and they have shown remarkable signs of improvement,” Audu said.

He also said the result of samples taken from the patients to Irua General Hospital in Edo State for investigation proved negative to Lassa Fever.

On the 62 persons earlier reported to have died, the commissioner said the figure was given by local leaders in the affected areas and was yet to be verified by government.

“We will investigate and trace the dead people to the grave yard and come up with the correct figure.

“We want to assure the general public that government is doing all that is humanly possible to stay on top of the situation and forestall further loss of lives.

“We will continue to inform the public as the investigation progresses,”  Audu said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment