The winner of the Miss Nigeria football Pageant Award Miss Tracy Solomon spoke to Esther Egbe recently about her mission in NPFL and how it’s started and more. 
May we meet you?
I am Tracy Solomon from Cross River state.  I am from a family of five. I’m second to the last born. my father is a civil servant. I lost my mother.
What was growing up like?
My growing up as a child was very interesting, I didn’t come from a very rich family but my parent’s never allow me to lack anything,my growing up was just fun.
Educational background?
I attended glory nursery and primary sch in garki Abuja,I also have my degree in year 2015,(mass communication) precisely.
How did football thing started for you?
Football is not a new thing to me cause I came from a sport loving family,my father love football very much including my siblings.
Toughest decision ever taken?
Toughest decision I ever took, was give out my Highlander jeep to my senior sister.
Some are of the opinion that you stumbled on football modelling?
I’m former Queen models on the island Africa beauty Queen and current miss Nigeria football beauty Queen. I’m also in to estate management, souvenirs, printing and general contract thank you
Toughest decision taken as a model?
Toughest decision I have taken as a model is leaving my sister on a sick bed just to secure a modeling deal,seriously it wasn’t easy for me.
Biggest achievement as business woman?
I achieve a lot as a business woman, I won’t won’t to mention my achievement in public at list not for now.
Any regrets in life?
I don’t have any regrets in life,I either learn from mistakes or run away from them
Why modelling?
I chose modelling because is what I love doing.
Most cherished asset?
My most cherished asset is my family love,that’s my greatest asset in life
Like and dislike?
I dislike lazy people and I hate lies.
How did you got into modelling for football?
My most cherished asset is my family love,that’s my greatest asset in life.
What club is your best in Nigeria league?
Well,as miss Nigeria football beauty Queen, I don’t have a favourite NPFL club,I love all the clubs but I admire Kano Pillars FC. My best foreign club is Manchester United.
What state has the best stadium in Nigeria?
Akwa ibiom  state has the best stadium in Nigeria.
   
Who do you think will win the league this season?
I think plateau united will win this season trophy.
If there is anything you, will love to change in the league what will that be?
If there is anything I will love to chance in the league it will be referee officiating, I think they really need to work on officiating. Our referee need to be educated more intense of officiating.
A word for your fans?
To my fans our there I love you so much,and never give up on your dreams .
What do you think about the Chan team?
The chan team performance so far is great, but I just wish Anthony Okpotu can make the team because a play like him with 17 goals worth making the list.
Anyone played football in your family?
Yeah my brother play football but as the only son of the family my father insist that he most go to school, he didn’t play as a professional player but my ant is super falcons bordmember.
What is your mission for Nigeria Professional football league?
My mission for NPFL  is to use my  position to mobilize fans to embrace the local league as well as to preach against soccer hooliganism at match venues value to the Domestic league
.

			
			Post Views: 
			144