Share this on WhatsApp



Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State has commissioned the Orumba North and South/Umunneochi electrification project.
Kingsley Ezekwelu, Special Assistant (SA) on Media to the Governor, in a statement, explained that the project initiated and executed by Obiano administration covers 47 kilometers on a dedicated feeder line from the Oji River Power sub-station to the Orumba area of the state. He disclosed that 32 Communities from Anambra and the neighbouring Abia State are benefiting from the project and serviced from the 10 megawatts which the electrification project provides for at least 18 hours daily.
Speaking at the inauguration which took place at the Central School Umunze, in Orumba South Council, Obiano explained that the project cost about a billion naira, and thanked the Enugu State Government and other notable Ndi Anambra who played major roles in resolving some challenges that confronted the project in its early stages bordering on the fears expressed by the Oji Community over the project.
He revealed that his government is working with the Power Generating Company to significantly improve power generation capacity of the Oji River substation, adding that when fully realized, more power would be drawn from it to serve the growing agro-industries that are springing up across the state.
The governor expressed happiness that the electrification project would immensely impact positively on the socio-economic lives of the people, urging Ndi Orumba to ensure that they pay their electricity bills dutifully, assuring that his administration will mediate between them and the Power Company to ensure that they are not given outrageous bills.
The Executive Director of Enugu Electricity Distribution Company, Dr. Steve Dike, pointed out that the state government has taken a bold step in undertaking the project and harped the need for the people to be educated on energy conservation lifestyle to avoid generating exorbitant electricity bills.
The Commissioner for Power and Domestic Water Development, Obi Nwankwo, explained that the present administration decided to embark on the project despite the heavy cost, due to its recognition of the key role power plays in the socio-economic development of the state. He, therefore, urged the benefitting communities to protect the power cables from vandals to ensure that the project serves its purpose.
Also speaking, Commissioner for Housing and Urban Renewal, Engr. Frank Offor, who is from Orumba South, recalled that the area has been without light for over 10 years, saying Governor Obiano has by the project, shown that the welfare of Ndi Orumba was of great importance to him.In their respective remarks, a former Chairman of Orumba North, Bar. John Onyeakpa, and his Orumba South Counterpart, Chief Benneth Ibekwe, noted that the benefits of what the governor has done for them would remain immeasurable. They consequently assured him that the only way they will repay his benevolence towards them was by supporting his administration and voting him for a second term.A member of the State Assembly, representing Orumba South constituency, Princess Nicky Ugochukwu, commended the commitment and determination with which Obiano tackles the developmental challenges facing the people.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment