Share this on WhatsApp



 
Heritage Bank Limited has reiterated its commitment towards creating, preserving and transferring wealth as a timeless wealth partner to its customers.
The bank stated this at breakfast meeting in Lagos on Wednesday where it hosted ex-Housemates of Big Brother Naija reality TV show and other emerging 21st century entrepreneurs at an SME enhancement capacity training programme.
Speaking at the breakfast meeting in Lagos on Wednesday, Mr. Ejikeme Obiano, Head, Solutions and Propositions of Heritage Bank said the bank sees each customer as unique and therefore designs solutions that are tailored to address each customer’s needs.
He also remarked that the bank had put in place HB Concourse offices in Lagos, Abuja among others to enable budding entrepreneurs to access information on SME online as well as hold business meetings in a bid to reduce overhead costs at the beginning.
Also speaking, Mrs. Raliat Oyetunde, a principal SME Consultant to Heritage Bank listed some key qualities that would enable budding entrepreneurs to run a successful business in the Nigerian economy.
According to her, one of the qualities that a budding entrepreneur needs to be successful is to have passion for something, adding that it is the passion that will transform that thing to cash.
Oyetunde who also doubles as the CEO of Prinsult Global noted that another quality that an emerging entrepreneur needs to overcome the fear of competition is the ability to disrupt the ecosystem.
She advised the participants that they should be able to determine the need of their target audience so that they can channel their production towards meeting such needs. The SME consultant explained that the need of the customers must tally with the idea of the business promoter for the two to strike a balance.
Heritage Bank is one of the sponsors of the on-going BB Naija reality show which Katung Aduwak, the first winner of Big Brother Nigeria, said was designed by its creators to attract controversies and create agenda for social discussions.
Beside this, Heritage Bank had earlier promoted Nigeria’s rich cultural heritage to the global community through the on-going Big Brother N.
Some of the Ex-BBnaija Housemates that graced the event include Offiong Edet Anthony (Thin Tall Tony), Ese Eriata (Ese), Ekemini Ekerette (Kemen), CoColce Sowode (Coco-Ice), Gifty Powers, Uriel Ngozi Oputa (Uriel), Miyonse Oluwaseyi (Miyonse) and Somadina Anyama (Soma).
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment