Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
A grandmother simply identified as Ayinke, aka Iya Adijat, living in Cannan Land Estate in Matogun area of Ogun State is on the run for allegedly brutalizing her 4-year old granddaughter, Risikat Fayomi.
National Daily gathered that the four-year old victim had been locked up in a room when a passerby heard her groaning in pain. It was learnt that efforts by residents, who besieged the house, to gain entrance were futile, as the doors and windows were locked.
It took the intervention of policemen from the Ajuwon division before the doors could be broken and the victim rescued.
She was said to have been rushed to Tamara Medical Centre, a private facility on Ajuwon Road, in the Akute area. It was learnt that nurses and doctors at the hospital battled for three days to save Risikat’s life as she had been incapacitated by the torture.
Speaking with National Daily, a doctor at the hospital, who did not want to be identified, said Risikat was brought here by the police and people of the community.
“We commenced treatment immediately and after an X-ray, we discovered that she had fractures. It took three days to get the pains to subside. Despite that, she still feels a lot of pain when you touch the arm and leg.”
A community leader, Adewunmi Oyebode, explained that Risikat had been beaten for allegedly urinating on a prayer mat. He said, “The girl is not staying with her parents. Her mother abandoned her with the father when she was barely one year old. Since the girl’s father did not have a stable job, he in turn took her to the grandfather.
“I learnt that the step grandmother had instructed that whenever they were observing the Islamic prayers, nobody should leave the prayer mat.
“So, the girl became pressed and since she could not leave the mat, she urinated on the mat. After the prayer, she descended on her.”
Oyebode said Ayinke, who is about 47-year-old, later put Risikat in a room and locked her inside.
He said the hospital was awaiting the payment of its N30,000 bill before referring the victim to the Igbobi Orthopaedic Hospital for further treatment. He added that the community had started a manhunt for the suspect, Ayinke.
It was learnt that Risikat’s father, Abass, a 25-year-old tipper driver, showed up at the hospital on Friday to see his daughter.
The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident.
He noted that the state command had launched a manhunt for Ayinke.
He said, “The grandma is alleged to have broken her arm and an X-ray revealed she sustained compound fractures. Although the suspect is still at large, we were told she denied being responsible for the injuries and claimed that the girl fell. Investigations are ongoing.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment