Share this on WhatsApp
Governor Mohammed A. Abubakar of Bauchi State has been commended by stakeholders in the health sector as being the only Nigerian governor to fully implement the Abuja Declaration of allocating 16 per cent of the state’s budget to the health sector. The Governor has consistently allocated and implemented the policy since he assumed office in 2015, starting from his 2016 budget.

In the annual performance review workshop of the five points Health Agenda held at Bauchi Government Lodge, Asokoro, Abuja, the Bauchi State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Halima Mukadass, reviewed the successes and challenges faced in the implementation of the policy. 

According to her, huge success was recorded in the areas of routine immunisation, health workers motivation and welfare, improved funding, structure and strategic communication, among others.

Also present at the meeting were national and global partners, including representatives from USAID, Federal Ministry of Health, National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, as well as Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Stakeholders present also lauded the aggressive implementation of the five point health agenda by Abubakar.

Speaking at the roundtable discussion, Governor Abubakar attributed the success recorded to collaborative efforts of all stakeholders in the health sector in the state, as well as prudent management of resources introduced by his administration. He added that government’s consistency in implementing the well-thought policy was also critical to the success recorded.

Part of the gains mentioned include construction of 19 primary healthcare centres across the local government areas in the state, all equipped with modern facilities, water source and a functional ambulance each. Abubakar also said his administration will remain consistent in improving the quality of life and standard of living in the state, noting that the positive feedback received will be implemented. He added that the review meeting will continue annually.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment