Reminds President Nigerians are suffering
As Buhari ends 50 days of vacation 

By SUNDAY ODIBASHI


An elder statesman and retired Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Abubakar Tsav, has commended the return of President Muhammadu Buhari after 50 days of vacation in London, United Kingdom.

Tsav. Speaking to National Daily from his residence in Makurdi, Benue State, said that the return of President Buhari has put an end to speculations on his health status and the doubts or disbelieves over his telephone conversations with certain persons across the world during his vacation in London.

Tsav observed that while President Buhari was away, several Nigerians acknowledged that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was doing very well as Acting President. He emphasized that the performance of the Acting President has set a new standard for the All Progressives Congress (APC) government.

Tsav reminded the President that there is still hunger and starvation in the country, saying that people are suffering.

Tsav was of the view that the rising profile of Vice President Osinbajo will not cause any problem in the Presidency as President Buhari returns. “The President will not have any problem with the Vice President over the wide commendation of his performance by the people; they are working as a team,” Tsav declared.

President Buhari arrived the country early on Friday at about 7.41am at the Kaduna Airport, ending his 50 days of vacation overseas. He was conveyed to the Presidential Villa, Abuja, from Kaduna in an executive helicopter.

Femi Adesina, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, had on Thursday night, broken the news of the President’s return on Friday. “President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to return to the country tomorrow, Friday March 10, 2017. The President left the country on January 19, 2017 for a vacation, during which he had routine medical check-ups,” Adesina had said.

President Buhari was received on arrival in Kaduna by the Deputy Governor of Kaduna State, Bala Bantex; the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 1 Division, the Commissioner of Police in Kaduna, and other dignitaries.

On his itinerary was Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari and others. 

President Buhari in a meeting with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), heads of security agencies, including Service Chiefs, at the First Lady Conference Room on arrival in the Presidential Villa, Abuja, expressed his gratitude to Nigerians who called and also prayed for him while he was on medical vacation in the UK.

‘‘I am deeply grateful to all Nigerians, Muslims and Christians alike, who have prayed and have continued to pray for my good health.

‘‘This is a testimony that in spite of the hardship being experienced, Nigerians support the government in its effort to tackle our country’s challenges,’’ the President said.

The President jokingly said that he returned to the country on a Friday intentionally so that Vice President Yemi osinbajo can continue acting.

President Buhari, however, indicated that there may be need for him to travel for further medical reasons overseas soon.

‘‘I am feeling much better now. There may, however, be need for further follow up within some weeks,’’ he said.

The President is expected to transmit a letter to the National Assembly to notify them of his return and resumption of duties.

Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, welcoming the President, thanked him for the thrust and confidence he had in him in entrusting the leadership of the country to him before proceeding on vacation. He commended President Buhari for respecting the constitution and entrusting power to him before travelling, The Vice President noted that it was a tough job traversing the length and breadth of the country to identify the problems in the various parts of the country and where government needs urgent interventions.

“It was satisfying for Nigerians and the Federal Executive Council to receive the President back in the country ‘‘hale and hearty.

“It is a day of joy not only for us but for the whole country, Africa and the world. Your arrival has vindicated our position that you will return safely,” Osinbajo said.