Share this on WhatsApp

By Inyali Peter, Calabar

China Jiangxi Corporation for International Economic and Technical Cooperation, has expressed desire to establish its Nigerian headquarters in Calabar.

Deputy Chairman of the firm, Changqing Cao, disclosed this when he led his team on a courtesy call on the Cross River State governor, Prof Ben Ayade, at the state executive chamber, Calabar.

 Cao who spoke through an interpreter revealed that “the company ranks 250 among the notable international contractors as presented by the United States Engineering News records”.

He added that the choice of Calabar was apt as it shares same topography with the Jiangxi province in China.

According to him, “We have 20 branches, 18 in Africa including Kenya, Zambia, Namibia, Ethiopia, among others. We are currently building an airport in Zambia and a university hospital in Kenya.

He disclosed that the firm has embarked on road projects in Ghana, Zambia and Ethiopia.

Explaining that the firm has interest in the construction of the superhighway, Cao said if approved by the governor, its road construction engineers will be deployed to the state for commencement of feasibility studies.

He maintained that the firm also seeks to “embark on social housing, as Nigeria with a huge population is faced with accommodation challenges which must be tackled to boost the economy so that it would impact positively on the citizenry.”

Responding, Governor Ayade expressed hope that having established strong footing in various West Africa countries, he was confident that the firm will replicate same experience in Cross River.

“Make haste, as right now, we are under pressure from other companies, but as a state, we have not committed to any specific company in paper and in writing for the superhighway. It is open and virgin, you can come in as soon as you can,” Ayade said.

The governor implored the firm to “fast track institutional approvals and other processes necessary as we are ready to give you accommodation, provide logistics support to make sure you stay in Calabar highly focused to deliver on the task.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment