Ekiti Governor Ayo Fayose has given out his phone number so  President Muhammadu Buhari can call him to clear tthe air over his health condition many suspect is deteriorating as the president allegedly vacayions in London.

Fayose’s comment is contained in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Idowu Adelusi, which was made available to journalists on Sunday.

Buhari has called former Presidnt Olusegun Obasanjo, Kano Gov. Ghnaduje, and Kogi Gov. Yahaya Bello. He has has phone converstaions with African leader, ibcluding the president of the African Union as well as the King of Morocco.

“I advise the President to speak with me for the purpose of convincing Nigerians that he is hale and hearty instead of looking for people outside the country to convince Nigerians,” he said.

“If their problem is that they are looking for a credible person who can help them convince Nigerians that all is well with our President, Ayo Fayose is their best bet

“Let the president speak with me. If I tell Nigerians that the president spoke with me, Nigerians will believe.”

The governor said Nigerians were already suspicious of all the “purported” visits to Buhari in London as well as his “orchestrated” telephone conversations with international figures who, Mr. Fayose said, could not be trusted to give a true and unbiased report about the president’s state of health.

“Since they are eager for the president to speak to people; believing in this way to convince Nigerians that their President is hale and hearty, let President Buhari talk to me. I can be reached on 08035024994. I am credible and Nigerians will believe me,” Mr. Fayose said.

“They said he spoke to President Donald Trump; despite the hype, Nigerians were sceptical. Then they said he spoke to the king of Morocco; again, Nigerians were suspicious. Before we recovered from that, it is now the AU president that they said President Buhari spoke to.

“A president that can speak with outsiders should be able to whisper or wave to his own people.

“The people gave him the very important platform of the President on which he stands today and, therefore, presidential aides should stop giving the unhelpful impression that Buhari has no respect for the Nigerian electorate.”

			
			Post Views: 
			120