Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya        
The Lagos chapter of MDZOUGH U TIV (MUT) has warn the Federal Government to either take drastic measures to abate the dastard killings and attacks on hapless Tiv people in Benue state or risk the possibility of victims resorting to self-defense.
The President General of the group, Prince Aondowase Ikyernum Kajo made the assertion while addressing a world press conference in Lagos.
According to him the Tiv people of Nigeria condemn in totality this pogrom going on in Tivland across Benue State, citing Federal Government’s lukewarm attitude.
“If these killings continue unabated with the same lukewarm attitude of the FG and the unpatriotic and unprofessional conduct of some of the security officers deployed to the affected communities, we will be left with no choice than to resort to the first law of nature which is self-defence.
ALSO SEE: Herdsmen killing: Benue Indigenes in Lagos stages protest
“We would take the war to the door steps of those who are now comfortably displacing us from our ancestral homes for their cattle to graze undisturbed. The FG must protect us now or else we will protect ourselves if it continues paying lip service to our plight.”
MUT insist that no land in Tiv nation can be ceded for grazing and ranching, stressing that they are poise to stall the purported plans by Benue State House of Assembly to cede 42,500 hectares of Benue land to Fulani herdsmen in a bill which is said to be in its final stages.
The group noted that Sambisa forest is better used as national grazing reserve for herders.
The Chairman Tiv Professional Association Engineer Jirgba Iwaghhauge Bitacy also corroborated the stance of the group, stating unequivocally the resolution of the acclaimed fourth largest tribe in Nigeria to take on the defensive posture if the unprovoked attacks and killings persist.
“President Buhari needs to correct these abnormalities to give us a sense of belonging in this country”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment