Share this on WhatsApp



 
The recently released 2016 Jobberman’s ‘Best 100 Companies to Work For’ list, which is in its third edition, focuses on recognising and celebrating top employers in Nigeria.
Rated by employees and professionals, the list provides an insight to job seekers on companies they should have their eyes on, for employment and career growth, as well as providing opportunities for business prospecting.
The top 5 positions this year were taken up by international companies – General Electric, Airtel, Ericsson, Google and Shell – while locally set up organisations took up the 6th to 10thpositions.
Union Bank, which celebrates its 100thanniversary this year took up the 9th position on the list of companies,moving up 24 places from 33rd place in the 2015 list. This ranking reinforces a number of awards they’ve received in the past year, especially the “Best Contributing Employer in Human Resources in 2015″ award they received from the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) in August 2016.
It was observed that companies with a consistent commitment to employee welfare, training, work-life balance, good salary packages and an equal opportunity policy took up the top positions. Union Bank for example is known to invest heavily in ensuring it is a great place to work so its employees can give their best to deliver the incredible transformation currently going on in the bank.
Jobberman.com conducted online surveys with experts across all industries utilising its 2 million+ database of entry-level job seekers and seasoned professionals; as well as reaching out through email, social media, and partner channels. The survey captured questions on work experience, salary parameters and working conditions.
The Jobberman’s ‘Best 100 Companies To Work For’ list provides a comprehensive rating of employee satisfaction and commitment to different employers in Nigeria.
It is a good reminder to organisations that their growth and innovation depends on building an engaged, collaborative and committed workforce.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment