Share this on WhatsApp



The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has started compiling a list of abandoned projects and given 30 days to defaulting contractors to return to work.
The Commission warned that defaulting contractors would be arrested and prosecuted.
Mr Chijoke Amu-Nnadi, the commission’s Head of Corporate Affairs said in a statement in Abuja that the action had become imperative to fast track development of the region.
They have also embarked on the audit of projects awarded in the region, in line with federal government’s directives.
Amu-Nnadi declared that it was important for contractors to realise that it was not business as usual. “President Muhammadu Buhari is determined to change how government business is conducted and everyone must wake up to that reality.
“But beyond that is the fact that we owe the Niger Delta region and our people the duty to implement and complete these projects to facilitate sustainable regional development.
He added that the Initiative was to restructure the balance sheet of the commission and determine poor performing projects.
The 20-Point Agenda of the Petroleum Ministry with regards to the Niger Delta, as well as the Amnesty Programme, had been reviewed.
He added that the 16-point demands of the Pan Niger Delta Forum had also been reviewed.
“It is important to consolidate the agenda with that of Ministry of Petroleum Resources, as well as the blueprint of state governments, the amnesty office and the NDDC master plan to roll them into one workable plan.
“We are all going to initiate quick-win projects that will give a sense of involvement to government’s approach in handling issues that will impact the people.
The commission would work with Ministry of Environment and NOSREA to facilitate the Niger Delta clean-up of affected areas by oil spill.
They would encourage International Oil Companies (IOCs) to provide more electricity to host communities.
Satellite mapping, he said, would be used to identify polluted areas and a comprehensive plan of action adopted to ensure regional clean up.
“This is important because we must safeguard our environment and give our people opportunities and an enabling environment to pursue our traditional means of livelihood.
“Agriculture and aquaculture are key to facilitating sustainable development in the region, particularly as we seek alternate productive socio-economic activities beyond oil and gas.
“
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment