Share this on WhatsApp



The lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency II in the Lagos State House of Assembly, Honourable Jude Idimogu has urged Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to include the construction of a pedestrian bridge at Toyota bus stop to ensure the safety of traders and constituents crossing the expressway daily.
Jude made the call while addressing newsmen in the Assembly,citing the cost effectiveness of such a step even as the state government embarks on the expansion of the Muritala Mohammed Airport road in the area.
He also commended the Governor for addressing the yearnings of the people by opening up the axis paving way for direct foreign investment into Oshodi/Isolo constituencies and Lagos state.
“I want to appreciate Mr. Governor for the expansion of Muritala Mohammmed Airport Road,it will no doubt add to our beauty and business venture will do better,he should also help look at the link roads,that adjoins the main road as investors are already trickling in owing to the ongoing construction works embarked upon by the Akinwunmi Ambode led administration and areas like Ajao Estate and others with good hotels would be able to latch on the opportunity to make business as the investors comes.
ALSO SEE: Doctors, nurses, other health workers, not sickness, killing 90 % of sick Nigerians, says CMD
“ We have been yearning for a touch of the government in my constituency and now that there is an ongoing construction work, I want government to use that opportunity to provide a pedestrian bridge at Toyota bus stop along Apapa/Oshodi expressway.
“Traders crossing the expressway are my people,the Governor once made a promise to us,now that this construction is ongoing he should factor it in.
“I also like to appeal for massive support for the contractors from constituents while the construction work is still on as there will be obstructions”. Jude reiterated.
Commenting on the IPOB agitation the lawmaker urged the agitators to rather collaborate with other ethnic groups to fight the marginalization war.
The legislator weighed the implications of the IPOB agitation and counseled the leader of the group Mr.Ndubuisi Kanu to thread softly and eschew an attempt that may break up Nigeria.
“My brother Kanu did his best but not in the right way, though we are marginalized but we are not the only marginalized tribe in Nigeria.
“Even if you want to fight you should know we are in a democratic era and there are ways to fight, you must always collaborate,you cannot do it in Isolation,if the other tribes have sympathy for you having listened to you then your idea can sail.
“Move to break up Nigeria won’t sail, the way to go is to be fair,firm and allow justice reign. Power is not given on a platter of gold.
“You need to work with the other tribes,come together place your agenda before them. We cannot afford war again. A typical Igbo man has gone far, if such happens we will lose so much, why start what we cannot finish”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment