Share this on WhatsApp



A Nigerian Army soldier that was fatally wounded by Boko Haram insurgents during a fierce battle with terrorists in the northeast, has vowed to return to battle front to retaliate and fight them until victory is achieved.
The soldier, Private Samuel Ernest, who is recuperating from an injury at the 7 Division Medical Services and Hospital, Maiduguri, says he would go back to the frontline to continue the fight against the terrorists.
“After my treatment, if I am fit enough, I will go back to the bush — frontline, in order to continue the fight against the Boko Haram terrorists.
“I am feeling better now, I can now use crutches and put my feet down. The moment I am fully recovered, I would want to be redeployed to the front to tackle the bastards. I will fight them until we secure victory over them,” he reiterated.
ALSO SEE: Military kill five top Boko Haram’s Commanders in air strikes
Ernest disclosed this during Sallah get-togather organised for wounded soldiers while fighting the terrorists. He applauded the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai and the army high command especially for recognising their efforts and identifying with the injured during the occasion.
“I feel happy celebrating the Sallah, the chief of army staff came to the hospital to see how we are faring and how we are being taken care of,” he added.
National Daily learnt that Ernest sustained injury about six months ago while in the front.
Also speaking, Private Titus Okon, who was shot on May 21 expressed joy expressing another Sallah while thanking Lt Gen Buratai fatherly concern for all injured soldiers during the battle with insurgents.
Promising more commitment to the troops welfare, the representative of the Chief of Army Staff, Maj Gen. David Ahmadu, Chief of Training and Operations, assured them that “the army was committed to their welfare.”
Expressing happiness over the decimation of Boko Haram sects, Lance Corporal Adamu Ali observed that during the 2016 Eid-el-Kabir celebration in Mafa, they had series of attacks through ambush but now in 2017, there is nothing like that.
“I would liked to be with my family during but due to the nature of job, I had to stay away from them. “It is the nature of the job, and I will continue with the clearance operation until we completely free our country of Boko Haram” Ali reiterated.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment