The All Progressives Congress (APC) has mounted a rigorous campaign for the party’s standard flag bearer Mr. Noheem Adams in the Lagos State House of Assembly bye-election scheduled for September 30th to fill the vacant seat in Eti-Osa 1 constituency.

During the electioneering campaign the Chairman Iru Victoria Island Local Council Development Area, Hon. Princess Rasheedat Abiodun-Adu echoed the resourcefulness of the All Progressives Congress candidate Mr. Noheem Adams, prior to his emergence, an declaring the party is sure of 100 percent victory in the 30th September  bye-election in Eti-Osa constituency 1.

She made the assertion while addressing newsmen, affirming her confidence about the party’s victory come Saturday.

The council boss also commended the lofty achievements of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode led administration in Lagos State, imploring the people of Eti-Osa constituency 01 to come out enmasse  to cast their votes for qualitative representation in Noheem Adams.

APC Chairman Eti-Osa East Alhaji Dauda Bashorun Apampa also affirmed the expected victory.

Mr. Noheem while enumerating his six Point legislative agenda said, “Through the help of the people and the Executive Governor of Lagos State Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, FCA, we shall boost ecological protection to decisively tackle the ocean surge that is troubling us in Eti-Osa 1, the last rainfall wreck lots of havoc in Alpha beach and beyond, we shall also embark on periodic clearing of drainages in our areas in order to ensure free flow of water.

” Youths empowerment will not be ignored as we shall afford them vocational trainings and assist them with tools to operate independently.

Adding that the, “elderly people will benefit from periodic free medical check- ups to enhance their health status.

“In the area of infrastructural development, roads construction and electrification will be accorded priority, we shall also ensure good communication with our constituents by organizing quarterly town hall meetings with stakeholders to feel their pulse and take feedbacks to Assembly for prompt attention by our Governor.”

Mr. Noheem Adams, formerly a staff of Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) and a certified accountant, reiterated the fact that the deceased left behind a big vacuum but he is banking on God and constituents to bring about more dividend of democracy to their door steps if elected.

ALSO SEE: IPOB agitation drives House back to abandoned bill

Earlier Mr. Taofeek Alimi who also aspired for the post to replace his late brother late Hon Kareem Alimosho in the bye-election primary held on the 4th of September. While speaking to newsmen said, it is imperative for them to come together and support the candidate of the party and guard him to success.

“I work closely with my late brother and I know where the work stopped, there are various projects that are yet to be completed while some have not yet started, but already approved, we shall advise our incoming honourable and guard him towards actualizing the vision of Hon. KADECO before his demise.”

“My coming out to join him is just to affirm that there is no rancour in the party and we are ready to go all out for total victory come September, 30”, Mr. Alimi noted.

It will be recalled that the demise of the member of the State Assembly representing Eti-Osa1 Hon. Kazeem Alimi on July 18necessitated the bye election, the late lawmaker was buried July 19th,having developed illness few days after celebrating his 50th birthday.

Noheem the APC candidate is set to be fielded against eight other candidates namely, Mr Olawale Olushola (AA), Mr Samson Tampennu(AD),Mr. Olawale Gbadamosi (BNPP),Mr Ilufemiloye Adebiyi(DA),Mr Oluwaseun Adedayo-Daniel (NNPP),Mr Arubiewe(PDP),Mr Olorunyomi Odusanya (PPA) and Mr Abiodun Adedayo (UDP), for the vacant seat in the Lagos State House of Assembly.

According to the INEC Spokesman in Lagos Mr Femi Akinbiyi  1776 Corps members have been trained to supervise the bye election in the affected constituency which has six registration areas(wards) and 188 polling units,the RA’s includes:Victoria Island II, Ilasan Housing Estate/Moriyegun 5 and Lekki/Ikate.

			
			Post Views: 
			164