Share this on WhatsApp



By Ben-kalio Mercy

The Owa-Obokun of Ijesaland, Oba Gabriel Adekunle Aromolaran, has described the Ooni of Ife, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, as an uncommonly revered monarch who all true sons and daughters of Yoruba extraction should hold in high esteem and support in taking Yorubaland to a greater height, saying that Ile-Ife remains the ancestral  home of the Ijesa people and the entire Yoruba race.




Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi Oba Aromolaran stated this on Tuesday evening in Ile-Ife during a historic courtesy visit to the Ooni in his palace. The Owa who came with a large retinue of monarchs from Ijesaland, chiefs and prominent Ijesa sons and daughters said; “I am so happy to pay the Oonirisa a visit for the first time since he has mounted this sacred throne of our father Oduduwa”

“I see Your Majesty as God’s chosen for this generation because your programme of peace and unity that you preach around the world is what is needed at this time in Yorubaland,” Oba Aromolaran said. He futher explained he had visited the Ooni to personally invite him to his forthcoming 80th birthday ceremony holding later in October 2017 at Ilesa. “I’m here to personally invite the Arole Oodua to my 80th birthday coming later in October. “

ALSO SEE: Ekiti 2018 gubernatorial: Fayose anoints Deputy as successor 

“This is the first time I would be celebrating my birthday on earth; and I see that I cannot do such without informing the Ooni of Ife and the entire people of Ile-Ife who are my direct siblings because this place is the ancestral home of all the Ijesa people and Yoruba as a whole”. “After deliberations at home with my children, the Obas, chiefs, and prominent Ijesas children at home and in diaspora; it was unanimously decided that Ooni of Ife and Alaafin of Oyo should be the Royal Fathers of the day.

 That is why I had to come and personally invite Oonirisa to the event as I cannot send the invite to Ooni through a representative, “Oba Aromolaran said. In his remarks, Ooni Ogunwusi appreciated God for sparing the life of Oba Adekunle Aromolaran to be witnessing 80 years on earth and acknowledged God for giving the royal father sound health and long life on the throne.

He however assured Oba Aromolaran and his people of his physical presence at the occasion as invited.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment