Share this on WhatsApp

mourn two lives lost




By Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos
The Minister of Interior, Abdulrahman Bello Dambazau has said that the unity of Nigeria remain unshakable in the face of the lingering tension witnessed in the country in recent times.
Dambazau stated on Friday in Jos, during an assessment visit on the recent face off between some members of the Hausa Community and the Igbo, which led to the loss of two lives while many were injured.
Speaking with newsmen, the Minister said, “The unity of Nigeria remain unshakable in the face of the recent agitation and tension hitherto being witnessed in the country.
“I am in Jos to get a first hand information on the crisis situation reported on Thursday between the Igbo and the Hausa as a result of the agitation going on in the Southeast.
“I call on Nigerians to remain steadfast in keeping the country together as it is our collective responsibility to do so”, he said.
On his part, the Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, regretted the unfortunate incident that claimed the lives of two calling on community leaders to call their subjects together.
ALSO SEE: Can our politicians save Nigeria?
He said that the state remains home for all, irrespective of religion, ethnic extraction or political persuasion, assuring citizens that his administration is commitment to peace and stability in the state, adding that all non-indigenes in Plateau state were safe and urged them to go about their legitimate businesses without fear or intimidation.
“The tension took us by surprise, I call on community and religious leaders to caution their wards at home as any culprit arrested would not go free as nobody is above the law .”
“I want to assure all citizens that their security and welfare as the primary concern of the government.
I, therefore, enjoin all citizens to go about their business with the assurance that their safety is guaranteed”.
Lalong further appealed to all religious and community leaders, neighbourhood vigilantes as well as all law abiding citizens to ensure nobody is allowed to take advantage of this unfortunate situation to engage in criminality.
“We wish to restate that Plateau State remains home to all citizens of Nigeria irrespective of religion, ethnic extraction or political persuasion.
“I therefore enjoins all peace loving citizens to ensure that nothing is allowed to upset the hard earned peace in the State”, he added.
National Daily reports that Jos remain under an indefinite dust to down curfew spanning from 6pm-6am. It was imposed by the State government on Thursday after hostilities broke in the state.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment