The Lagos State Police Command has destroyed five shrines in Ikorodu allegedly belonging to members of the dreaded cult group, Badoo.

Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal led a team of police officers and bulldozers to Agbowa in Ikorodu to demolish the shrines.

The cult has been terrorising residents of Ikorodu axis of Lagos State, killing many residents and smashing their victims’ heads with grinding stones.

The state Police Public Relations Officer, Olarinde Famous-Cole, confirmed the raid on the shrines believed to be used by members of the ritual cult group.

Famous-Cole said a suspect identified simply as James, who claimed to be a native doctor, was arrested, adding that two victims were rescued from one of the shrines.

The police said that such shrines are used for ritual purposes, adding that most people who were unfortunate to board wrong commercial buses, are usually taken to such shrines.

“Our visit here is based on a long collaboration with eminent persons of Ikorodu, who in partnership with the police, volunteered information concerning existence of illegal shrines, where kidnappers, ritual killers and hoodlums kidnap people and lure them under false pretences, to defraud them,” the police commissioner was quoted to have said.

ALSO SEE: Police promotion bribery scandal is true – Police source

According to him, there are three of such shrines in Agbowa alone.

“This is why I always tell my officers and men to build confidence and trust with members of the public. That is a basic fundamental aspect of community policing. Eminent people gave this information, leading to uncovering of three shrines in Agbowa.”

The CP said he has been receiving reports that people were kidnapped in Lagos, and while trying to move from one location to another, they are unfortunate to board the wrong buses.

Apart from the Agbowa shrine, there was another one at Ikosi.

The operation was led by the commissioner of police and other agencies like the Task Force officials, Department of State Services (DSS) and the local vigilance group.

			
			Post Views: 
			130