Denies killings or arson in Aba

Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has extended the three days curfew he declared last Tuesday following tension arising from military occupation of the state. The curfew was to end this Thursday but mounting tension and seeming confrontations between the Nigerian Army and IPOB members showed signs of insecurity, culminating into the decision to extend the period of the curfew in the state.
The Abia State Government refuted reports of killings and arson in Aba.
Enyinnaya Apollos, Chief Press Secretary to Governor Ikpeazu, in a statement, indicated  that  many government  officials received calls of purported attacks around Uratta, Umuode, Ariaria and Umuozuo axis of Aba, noting that checks last night and this morning by security agencies, especially, the Nigeria Police, showed that the rumours were false.
“The government believes that the rumors were deliberately circulated to sow mischief, and cause breakdown of law and order. This is totally unacceptable. The government wishes to assure the public that it is doing its best to protect the citizens and all who reside in the state,” the statement said.
ALSO SEE: Python Dance is unconstitutional
On Wednesday, the governor met with the GOC of 82 Division of the Nigeria Army and all Traditional rulers in Abia State. At the meeting, the military was asked to scale back deployment of soldiers in Umuahia and Aba to enable the Royal Fathers, once again, dialogue with IPOB. Also, Traditional Rulers committed to further liaise with HRH Eze I.O Kanu (father of Nnamdi Kanu, Leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB) to further explore ways of restoring peace and normalcy.
The government appealed to Abians and Nigerians to go about their lawful businesses and ignore the unfounded rumors and incitement.
“We also urge you to report persons peddling such rumors of attack on individuals and properties to security agents,” the statement said.
Accordingly, Gov. Ikpeazu extended the three days curfew imposed on Aba to Friday, 15th September 2017. The Governor had declared three days dusk to dawn (6.00pm to 6.00am) curfew in Aba from Tuesday 12/09/2017 to Thursday 14/09/2017.
The governor advised residents and visitors to fully co-operate with security agents to ensure continuing maintenance of law and order within the commercial city and environs.
“He also wishes to express his displeasure with the situation where people are compelled to raise their hands while passing through security checkpoints and hereby call on security agents and all concerned to ensure that such acts, and other forms of inhumane and barbaric treatment of people, are discontinued immediately,” the statement said.

			
			PV: 
			0