Army HQs opposes withdrawal of troops

The expectation that tension would be doused in Abia Sate after withdrawal of troops this weekend has been dashed by the insistence of the military high command that the Operation Python Dance II continues.
The Headquarters of the Nigeria Army, Abuja, had insisted that there will be no withdrawal of troops from the South East states as earlier reported by the media.
Brigadier General Sani Kukasheka Usman, Director of Army Public Relations, in a statement, indicated that the Army will ensure the logical completion of (Python Dance) EGWU EKE II in Abia and the five South-east states.
“The attention of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to some stories in the media that it is withdrawing its troops from Exercise EGWU EKE II, crediting such information to Abia State Governor and the General Officer Commanding 82 Division Nigerian Army,” Kukasheka Usman remarked.
He declared: “This is not true. The Nigerian Army wishes to enjoin members of the public to disregards such rumours.
“For the avoidance of doubt, the Abia State Governor in his speech, stated that ‘there will be gradual withdrawal of soldiers on the streets of Aba and Umuahia from tomorrow.’
“This should not be misconstrued as withdrawing of troops earmarked for Exercise EGWU EKE II. The General Officer Commanding 82 Division has not said such thing.
“Consequently, we wish to state that Exercise EGWU EKE II is commencing tomorrow as scheduled. Commanders have been instructed to ensure that all hands are on deck to commence the Exercise to its logical completion.
“We wish to state further that the successful completion of the exercise will dovetail into the various states security outfits till the end of this year. Members of the public, especially, in the areas where the exercise will take place are please enjoined to go about their lawful businesses.
ALSO SEE: Genocide looms in Igboland
“We wish to also state that we would not allow any individual or group to jeopardize the conduct of the field training exercise through unlawful or criminal activities. Hoodlums and criminal elements are once again warned to be law abiding and not cause any breach of peace.
“We, hereby, reiterate that our troops would conduct themselves in the best professional manner, abide by the Rules of Engagement and Code of Conduct in line with requirements of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
“Any act of indiscipline by any of our personnel would be decisively dealt with. While we enjoin all Nigerians to go about their normal businesses, the Nigerian Army urge all to support the troops as they carry out their constitutional duties and make Exercise EGWU EKE II a success.”
Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, and the General Officer Commanding 82 Division Nigerian Army were on Thursday said to have disclosed that the Army will be withdrawing its troops from the streets of Abia on Friday.