Says they see Buhari as their meal

Major opposition to re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term is beginning to rise from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), as well as coming from the North.
Senator Shehu Sani, representing Kaduna Central in the National Assembly, on Tuesday, decried that the political elite perceive President Muhammadu Buhari as a “meal”, and that is their desire for him to seek re-election in 2019 is for their own survival.
Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State had last Friday said that he and some governors, including ministers have constituted themselves into ‘Buharist Group’ with the prime objective of ensuring that Buhari presents himself for re-election in 2019.
Senator Shehu Sani in a post on his Facebook page on Tuesday, stated that the decision to seek a second term in office squarely rests on Buhari, who he said, has been in politics and government longer than anyone in his party or cabinet.
The Senator stated that while the masses genuinely want the president to seek re-election, the political elite are putting pressure on him to run for office a second time because they consider him as a “meal and mill”.
ALSO SEE: How Shehu Sani played politics defending Alhassan, Buhari same time
“Whether Baba will seek re-election or not remains his individual decision to make. He is old enough and has been in politics and government longer than anyone in his party or cabinet as to know what to do and the right time to do it. He is the best person to judge and decide for himself what to do.
“The nation still needs his services but it’s still up to him to decide if he is willing and fit to provide more or not. The political elite in habit of applying pressure are pressure cookers and they see Baba as a meal and a mill.
“Baba is like a good driver who has driven for a long distance and so much cherished by his passengers, whether he is willing to cover more distance its best decided by him. Every leader chooses his seat and space in the ship of his and his country’s history.
“The reasons the masses want Baba continue is not the same as with the reason the elite want Baba to seek re-election .The former see him as a good force who should continue to lead them to the land of their dreams or the Promised Land; the latter see him as the lifebuoy for their political survival and relevance,” Shehu Sani declared.









			
			PV: 
			0