Share this on WhatsApp



A magnitude-7.1 earthquake rocked Mexico City on Tuesday, leaving at least 225 people dead, according to the Associated Press (AP).
The earthquake struck the Mexican capital city on the 32nd anniversary of an earthquake that killed thousands in the same city in 1985. Less than two weeks ago, an earthquake killed almost 100 people in the southern part of the country.
This happened a couple of days to the big bang conspiracy theorist David Meade said will happen September 23.
But there are other places to watch going by Meade astrological and eschatological permutations the Mexican quake just polished with some credibility.
The author of “Planet X – The 2017 Arrival” says:  “A dark star, smaller than our sun, which hosts seven orbiting bodies, some smaller than our moon and a couple of them larger than our Earth is currently racing towards our own solar system.”
Actually, Nibiru, the dark star, according to him, could have hit you  last year’s August. But he shifted till September 2017.
The theorist said the event will tee off the Great Tribulation Christian eschatologists have always talked about.
Meade added a bite to his doomsaying with the Augus5 21 eclipse. He told a U.S daily earlier this month that “the Great American Eclipse of August 21, 2017, is a major harbinger”.
Isaiah is the basis of what Meade has dubbed the “33 Convergence”, a hodgepodge of calculus and permutations and theorems with which he proves the world is doomed come next month.
According to him,  the eclipse would begin on August 21, the sunrise would be dark, just as Isaiah predicts,” he told the newspaper.
“The Moon involved is called a black moon. These occur about every 33 months. In the Bible, the divine name of Elohim appears 33 times in Genesis,” he said.
Them he metion places where sighs will show up in the sky.
“The eclipse will start in Lincoln Beach, Oregon – the 33rd state – and end on the 33rd degree of Charleston, South Carolina. Such a solar eclipse has not occurred since 1918, which is 99 years – or 33 times three.”
According to him, the zero hour comes 33 days after the US total solar eclipse—on the 23, September.
“Then the stars will align just as the book of Revelation says they will before the world ends.”
Meade said it “is indeed an amazing omen and a frightful sign.”
He said Revelation’s chapter 12 depicts a “great sign”: that a “woman clothed with the sun, with the Moon under her feet and a crown of 12 stars on her head” will “give birth.
On that very September 23, the Moon will appear at the feet of the constellation Virgo (a virgin woman), and at the head of Virgo there will be 12 stars, the nine stars of Leo and the planets Mercury, Venus and Mars, he noted.
“Virgo will then appear to give birth to Jupiter.”
Then the end comes.
To be sure, Meade is not a prophet. He is not a NASA expert. He’s no astrologer either. That makes it easy to ignore him all along.
But the sudden bang that killed 200 in Mexico Tuesday can just make anybody count  down to Saturday.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment