Nigerian Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), has absolved self of blame following the collapse of Omatek Ventures Plc, makers of Omatek Computers.
NITDA Director General Dr. Isa Pantami claimed that Omatek never contacted his agency.
“This is the first time, I heard the condition of Omatek Computers. It has never been communicated to us, formally or otherwise”. Pantami said in a statement.
Mrs. Hadiza Umar, head, Corporate Affairs and External Relations, NITDA, quoted the DG as saying “I personally gave an appointment to Omatek for a meeting, but Omatek couldn’t make it and no official communications on their inability to attend was made available to NITDA”.
“I recently met all Original Equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in Lagos. Part of our discussions, was how NITDA can support them. They explained all their complaints, but not the situation of Omatek.
“For the first time in the history of the Agency that, we arrange a quarterly meeting with OEMs on how to strengthen local content.
NITDA boss also argued in the reaction that “The situation of Etisalat is far different from this. 9mobile has always been in touch with their regulators and they have considered them as their stakeholders. Etc”
ALSO SEE: Recession: Why 0.55% growth is nothing to rejoice about – expert
It would be recalled that company has been taken over by a court order barely four months after the death Mrs. Florence Seriki, founder and CEO of Omatek Computer.
The closure of the company’s factory in Lagos, we gathered was over an alleged inability to pay up loans the company owes some local banks.
‘Mama Computer’ as the late Seriki was fondly called until her death on March 3, 2017, at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), was one of Nigeria’s pioneers and foremost indigenous Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) that specializes in the manufacturing of computers and other ICT related devices.
She served as Chief Executive Officer and Group Managing Director of Omatek Ventures Plc, which she started about 25 years ago.

			
			Post Views: 
			113