The standard flag bearer of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Lagos State House of Assembly bye-election scheduled for 30th of September to fill the vacant seat in Eti-Osa 1 constituency, Hon. Noheem Adams has stated the importance of the need for constituents to know that influencing development in the constituency should be his paramount responsibility not only monetary hand-outs that he can make available.

Noheem made this assertion while on a visit to pay homage to stakeholders in Eti-Osa constituency, he charge all aggrieved individuals to bury the hatchet and team up to take the constituency to an enviable height within a short while.

The team led by the Ward E chairman of APC, Alhaji Adewunmi Tijani Fatai, visited stakeholders in the locales of Eti-Osa; the Baale of Alpha Beach Alhaji Shamsideen Atewolara Akinsanya, the Oshateru Olowa of Ajiranland Okun Alpha, Chief Muraino Gbadebo.

Ward A APC Chairman Alhaji Taofeek Adeola Majekodunmi,West Side base in Ajah, Baale Ajah,Ilaje/Ajah Church, Baale Ajah Badore Chief Muraino Jikoji in Ward D, Baale Sangotedo ward B Chief Rafiu Lawal the Ajakaiye 1 of Sangotedo, the stakeholders all counseled the candidate citing their needs and urging him to maintain an open door policy.

The APC candidate who will slug it out with other parties fielding candidates at the election, polled 274 votes out of the 370 eligible votes in the party’s primaries held earlier this month.

It would be recalled that the demise of the member of the State Assembly representing Eti-Osa1 Hon. Kazeem Alimi on July 18 necessitated the bye election.

According to Noheem formerly a staff of Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) and a certified accountant, the deceased left behind a big shoe but he is banking on God and the good constituents to bring about more dividend of democracy to their door steps if elected.

“Through the help of the people and the Executive Governor of Lagos State Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, FCA, we shall boost ecological protection to decisively tackle the ocean surge that is troubling us in Eti-Osa 1, the last rainfall wreck lots of havoc in Alpha beach and beyond, we shall also embark on periodic clearing of drainages in our areas in order to ensure free flow of water, youths empowerment will not be ignored as we shall afford them vocational trainings and assist them with tools to operate independently.

“Elderly people will benefit from free medical check ups to enhance their health status, in the area of infrastructural development, roads construction and electrification will be accorded priority, we shall also ensure good communication with our constituents by organizing quarterly town hall meetings with stakeholders to feel their pulse and take feedbacks to Assembly for prompt attention by our Governor,” Noheem affirms.

Also on the train of the courtesy visits is the brother of the late Hon. Alimi, Mr. Taofeek Alimi who also aspire for the post to replace his late brother in the bye-election primary held on the 4th of September, while addressing newsmen, he said, it is imperative for them to come together and support the candidate of the party and guard him to success.

“I work closely with my late brother, and I know where the work stopped, there are various projects that are yet to be completed while some have not yet started, but

though already approved, we shall advise our incoming honourable and guard him towards actualizing the vision of Hon. KADECO before his demise.”
“My coming out to join him in this visitations is just to affirm that there is no rancour in the party, and we are ready to go all out for total victory come September, 30.” Mr. Alimi noted.

Meanwhile the All Progressives Congress, APC, is set to begin their door-to-door electioneering Campaigns, today, Monday, in other to solicit for votes and educates voters ahead of the Saturday, bye-election.




			
			Post Views: 
			232