Share this on WhatsApp
By Odimmegwa Johnpeter/Abuja

The Executive Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa has decried the low turnout of residents in the state for the National Identification Number (NIN) enrolment.
He also charged all residents in the state, to ensure that they enrol into the National Identity Database (NIDB) and receive their NIN, which is the only way they can effectively 
assert their identity in Nigeria.

The Governor made this call when he received the management of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), led by the DG/CEO Engr. Aliyu Aziz at the Government House in Asaba on Monday.

While lamenting the poor enrolment figure for Delta state, which stood at around 600,000 persons as at the time of the visit, Gov. Okowa called for aggressive awareness creation and mobilization of the state residents towards ensuring they are visibly captured in the National Identity Management System.

He acknowledged the numerous benefits of the project for the state and the nation, which includes, but not limited to, assisting the state in planning for the socio-economic and health benefits of its citizens, identifying and verifying the workforce and easing of access to micro-credit facilities.

ALSO SEE: NGO bill has nothing to do with Churches – Dogara

The Governor further pledged Delta state government’s readiness to support and collaborate with NIMC to ensure a wider coverage of the state, particularly the riverine areas.

“The Delta state government will work with the NIMC team to determine ways in which we can assist and help the Commission drive this laudable project here in the state and particularly reach those residing in the riverine areas, as their terrain requires special approach.” he said.

Earlier, the DG of NIMC highlighted the benefits of the NIMS and appealed to the state government to assist the Commission increase the number of enrolment centres in the state.

The NIMC DG also urged the Delta State Governor to partner the Commission by using the NIN and the NIN Verification Service (NVS) offered by NIMC, for civil servant verification, tax management, bursary management, among others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment