wants soldiers to remain on the streets

Following the crises generated by the confrontation of IPOB with personnel of the Nigerian Army, Umuahia Youth Movement has issued Abia State Governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu, 24 hours to dethrone Nnamdi Kanu’s father as a traditional ruler.

The youths had accused IPOB leader’s father for refusing to restrain his son, as an elder, from his campaign to actualise the dream of Biafra that has plunged Umuahia city into great crisis.

In the letter sent to the Executive Governor, the youths also copied President Mohammad Buhari; the Inspector General of Police; the Department of State Security (DSS); the Senate President; the Speaker House of Representative and the South East Governors Forum.

The letter signed by the President of the youths, Ifeanyi Okwudili; Vice President, Kasarachi Ubani and the Secretary, Anayo Ofor said prior to last week’s confrontation, “Umuahia has been the most peaceful capital city in Nigeria to live and do business but just because of one man, we are today facing the wrath of the Federal government.”

Part of the letter stated, “With tears and sorrow, the Umuahia Youth Movement respectfully write to request the dethronement of Nnamdi Kanu’s father as a traditional ruler of our clan.

“It beats our imagination that a man who calls himself a Royal Father and an Elder could not call his son to order but rather encouraged him in his madness that have plunged Umuahia city to a great crisis.


ALSO SEE: Nigerian military declares IPOB “terrorist organisation”


“Our shops, markets, schools, churches and all banks have been shut down. For the past three days we have been indoors for fear of been attacked by the military just because of one man whose father is our traditional ruler.

“Based on the above, we hereby request his dethronement within 24hrs or we will take the laws into our hands and dethrone him and even stripe him unclad and raze his house.”

National Daily gathered that the youths have also appealed to every well meaning Nigerian to prevail on Gov. Ikpeazu to urgently dethrone Nnamdi kanu’s father.

The youths are also demanding for retaining the soldiers on the street of Umuahia stressing, “the Operation Python Dance should remain in all streets of Umuahia as any attempt to withdraw them might make the IPOB criminals rob our shops and houses,” they reiterated.

As a result, they pledged their unalloyed support to the federal government of Nigeria and to ensure that “we remain one Nigeria and would join hands with you to make our country and Abia the best among all the country and state in the world.”


			
			Post Views: 
			115