Share this on WhatsApp










The executive chairman Ijaiye Ojokoro Ijaiye Ojokoro Local Council Development Area Hon. Hammed Idowu Tijani has appealed to residence to be more cautious of things that can aid fire outburst, to forestall a recur.

The council boss, who visited the scene of fire outbreak where wares worth millions of naira were razed as faulty electric cables went up in flames at the popular Jankara market within the council could not imagine the degree of damage the inferno did on the artisans properties,calling for vigilance.

“I am still in shock with the level of damages have seen so far, i got the distress call and immediately I called the fire service and police control room for prompt security of lives and properties.





“I want our people to be more cautious of their business and be their brother’s keeper, in case of things like this, what has happened here though the cause have not been ascertained but we need to be mindful of our properties, people should desist from keeping things that can aid fire outburst of this nature on while out of the offices and workshops put off all electrical appliances when not in use.
“I sympathize with those who have businesses around here and have been affected by the outbreak, as government we will continue to sensitize our people on the safety precautions and preventions.” HID said.
The fire outbreak which started around 4pm, left many shops burnt, as  Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LASEMA, Lagos State Fire Service and residence tries to remedy the situation and put out the fire.
Team of medical experts were also on ground to salvage situation, three people who were caught up in the inferno, two of whom were already  in a state of comma,while the other person is gradually recuperating after first aid was administered on him were immediately taken to nearby General Hospital for more medical attention.
The caused of the outbreak, which could not be ascertained as at Press time, was according to eyewitness account linked to electrical fault in a furniture workshop.
Eniola a witnessed at the scene of the fire outbreak,recounted the scenario, “the fire started from a furniture workshop, and affected other shops numbering about five, I only came to pick something in my shop, opening my shop, I saw flames, then I shouted for help, not too long the fire service came.”
The affected shops owners were counting their loses, furniture worth Millions of Naira was consumed by the ranging inferno, sewing machines, clothens, even the nearby cobbler’s and Provisions store were not spared by the fire burning voraciously.
ALSO SEE: Police prevent robbery in Yola, capture two
An official of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, who pleaded anonymity confided in newsarena correspondent that so far, the fire has gutted about six shops and the cause of the fire was linked to a faulty electric wire.
“What we could see currently, is an electrical wire which could developed some faults and chemicals found in a furniture’s workshop could have heightened the impact of the fire.
   
Though a big fire extinguisher was found in the shop, but report has it that a teenager was in the shop and clearly lacks the understanding of operating the extinguisher to put out the fire.
“So far the owner of the furniture workshop was injured and had been taken to an undisclosed hospital for medical attention before the team of LASEMA arrived two individuals were already placed on oxygen to help him breath properly, the medical team gave prompt attention, one of the victim was discharged immediately, but the other one had been taken away with the ambulance to general hospital for more medical attention.”
So far the fire has been extinguished by the men of fire service, LASEMA and residence who were on ground to renderassistance.
The chairman, All Progressives Congress, Ojokoro lcda, Prince Wale Bello, whose office was nearly affected as fence of the APC, Secretariat was pull down to enable men of the fire fighters gain access to the mechanic village which was located closely to the party secretariat, said, “we give glory to God, that no life lost in the process, those who sustained injuries have been taken care off and I must give the credit to youths In this environment, and men of the Lagos state Emergency Management Agency, there equipment were of international standard, they really put in professionalism.”
Fire fighters were still seen on ground running search on the environment, trying to check if the fire has been put out as at the time of filing this report.











Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment