Share this on WhatsApp



By Akanni Hamdalat Opeyemi
Indian police in Bengaluru are probing the death of a Nigerian, identified as N. Chigozie allegedly killed over Biafra. The body of the Nigerian in his mid-30s, who came to India on a student visa, was found near the railway gate in Hennur, northeast Bengaluru, in the wee hours of Monday.  Nigerian Chigozie killed in India over Biafra Chigozie, a resident of Hennur, was found with head injuries at 2am; his motorcycle had skidded off the road.
While the body has been shifted to Ambedkar hospital for autopsy, Kothanur police, based on his brother’s statement have registered a murder case, reports the Times of India. An account given by BangaloreMirror, Chigozie’s brother, whose name was spelt as Nanso, claimed his brother was killed after an argument with other friends over Biafra. According to the report, Chigozie, along with his brother Nanso, is said to have partied with a group of friends at a house in Byrathi. The Kothanur police, investigating the case, said the group of friends who were partying were discussing about the political turmoil back home over the formation of a separate state in Nigeria(Biafra) The discussion led to assault and the brothers were badly beaten up. Nanso, who had come in his car, drove to a nearby private hospital and is said to have taken treatment. Chigozie, who was returning home on his bike, was found dead near the railway bridge. “Nanso suspects that his brother could have been killed. However prima facie evidence suggests that the death could also be due to an accident. The victim could have skidded and fell from the bike while riding home. It was raining heavily. But a murder case has been registered based on his brother’s complaint and investigations are on,” S Girish, DCP (North East) told BM. “It seems to be an accidental death. Preliminary evidence shows Chigozie, who was speeding on his bike, crashed into an iron railing and died of head injuries. He was not wearing a helmet. But his younger brother Nieskho claims he was murdered,” police said. On Sunday evening, Chigozie, Nieskho and four other Nigerians partied at African Kitchen restaurant at Byrathi near Hennur. “The six revellers quarrelled over sharing food and assaulted each other.
Nieskho went to a nearby hospital to treat his injuries and Chigozie followed him on bike. While returning from the hospital, Chigozie died,” police said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment