By Ediale Kingsley

As Nigeria rebuilds a new team for the Super Eagles. Most of the faces are relatively new and some of the old faces are no longer in the club they use to be. National Daily, in series, brings to the knowledge of its readers the present status quo.

5 players were invited, available and on ground for the World Cup Qualifier between Nigeria and Cameroon. 3 play in a single club (Ahmed Musa, Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanchor, all of Leicester City). While the remaining two play for different clubs, Victor Moses of Chelsea and Ola Aina of Hull City.

Other players are  4 from Turkey, 2 from Nigeria, 2 play in China, 2 players from Portugal, 2 players from Israel, and 1 players each in Belgium, Russia, Netherland, Cyprus, Germany and France.

Ediale Kingsley in series will do an exposé on the players. First a list of the players and the clubs the represent:

Goalkeepers:

1. Daniel Akpeyi (Chippa United, South Africa)

2. Ikechukwu Ezenwa (FC IfeanyiUbah)

3. Dele Alampasu (Cesarense FC, Portugal)

ALSO SEE: Nigeria Vs Cameroon: Why Super Eagles picked up 4 points 

Defenders:

4. William Ekong (Bursaspor FC, Turkey)

5. Abdullahi Shehu (Anorthosis Famagusta, Cyprus)

6. Leon Balogun (FSV Mainz 05, Germany)

7. Tyronne Ebuehi (ADO Den Haag, The Netherlands)

8. Elderson Echiejile (Sivasspor FC, Turkey)

9. Chidozie Awaziem (Nantes FC, France)

10. Ola Aina (Hull City, England)

Midfielders:


11. Mikel John Obi (Tianjin Teda, China)

12. Ogenyi Onazi (Trabzonspor FC, Turkey)

13. Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England)

14. Oghenekaro Etebo (CD Feirense, Portugal)

15. John Ogu (Hapoel Be’er Sheva, Israel)

16. Mikel Agu (Bursaspor FC, Turkey)

Forwards:

17. Ahmed Musa (Leicester City, England)

18. Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City, England)

19. Moses Simon (KAA Gent, Belgium)

20. Alex Iwobi (Arsenal FC, England)

21. Odion Ighalo (Chang Chun-Yatai, China)

22. Victor Moses (Chelsea FC, England)

23. Anthony Nwakaeme (Hapoel Be’er Sheva, Israel)

Others on standby:

24. Uche Agbo (Standard Liege, Belgium)

25. Henry Onyekuru (Anderlecht FC, Belgium)

26. Kenneth Omeruo (Chelsea FC, England)

27. Aaron Samuel (CSKA Moscow, Russia)

28. Alhassan Ibrahim (Akwa United)

29. Stephen Eze (FC IfeanyiUbah)

30. Ifeanyi Ifeanyi (Akwa United)

			
			Post Views: 
			167