Controversial former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode has described former ex-Vice President, Atiku Abubakar as a blessing to Nigeria.
Reacting to a recent statement on his official twitter page credited to minister of women affairs, Aisha Alhassan that she would support Atiku Abubakar if he seeks election for the president in 2019, Fani-Kayode described her as being courageous to have declared her support for Atiku.
He added that Alhassan will also tell Nigerians the alleged role played by Nasir El-Rufai, Kaduna state governor in the abduction of Chibok schoolgirls.
 “Mama Taraba is a courageous woman who has spoken the truth. Vice President Abubakar Atiku is a blessing to this nation whilst President Muhammadu Buhari is a curse. The APC sun is about to set,” he said.​
​”​Mama Taraba has a duty to tell us all she knows about Governor Nasir El Rufai’s alleged role in the Chibok girls scam and Boko Haram. I urge her to do so.
ALSO SEE: Obasanjo throws weight behind Buhari
​”​I said it BEFORE, DURING and AFTER the 2015 presidential campaign that the truth about the Chibok girls and those behind BH was yet to be heard. Now it is all coming out. Nothing is hidden under the sun.
​”​Thank you Mama Taraba. Others will also come out to tell us what they know. Soon the world will know who the real terrorists are,”‎ he added.
Recall that Alhassan had during an interview with Reuters, said she would resign if Buhari seeks re-election and would support former vice president Atiku Abubakar if he decides to run. 
She said President Muhammadu Buhari told members of his party before he was first elected that he would only seek one term, implying he did not intend at that time to run in 2019.
Mixed reactions have trailed Alhassan’s open support for former Vice-President, Atiku Abubakar’s expected bid for the presidency in 2019.
In a video, which went viral on Wednesday, the minster declared Abubakar as “president 2019″. She later affirmed her position in an interview with the BBC Hausa, when she didn’t mind being sacked for supporting her “godfather”.

			
			Post Views: 
			157