Share this on WhatsApp



Alaka Abayomi, the man arrested and later released by the Police for allegedly operating a suspected ritualist shrine at Agbowa Area of Ikorodu has chided the Police for making statements that could incite the public against him despite not finding any evidences against him, the suspect has made it clear that he is not the owner of the Shrine of which the Police authority is trying hard to nail him on.
The suspect, Mr Abayomi Alaka, was arrested in a sting operation by the Lagos State Police Command in July , but was later released.
While meeting with traditional rulers at the Ikorodu town Hall on September 7th, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimo Edgal had vowed that he would prosecute the suspect, claiming that some ‘stupid people’ had been offering him money to kill the case.
“I decided to open its existence to the world so that nobody would be able to kill the case. I would have gone there quietly if I wanted to cover it. A lot of entreaties have been made and some stupid people have even attempted to offer me money,” Edgal had said at the meeting.
But reacting to the accusation in a statement made available to National Daily and signed by Tunde Ojehomon Esq, a lawyer, the lawyer described the accusation as blatant lies intended to paint his client in bad light.
“We are not the list by this press release attempting to join issues with the acting Commissioner of Police for Lagos State but rather enjoin him to thread with caution as his continuous public display of emotions on matter he claimed is still under investigation has continued to aggravate the insecurity of our client and his family.”
“We wish to state in an unequivocal term that our client is neither a ritualist, a murderer, a member of Badoo nor has any connection whatsoever with the group.”
The lawyer stated that Mr Abayomi Alaka felt embarrassed and dehumanized by the false allegation and activities of the men of the Nigeria Police Force and TV Continental television, and has therefore approached the court in suit No: FHC/L/CS/1241/17 against the IG and others to seek for the enforcement of his fundamental human rights.
He said the originating processes in the aforementioned suit have been served on the Commissioner of Police and in fact, the case which has already been assigned to a judge of the Federal High Court sitting in Lagos came up for hearing on the 6th of September, 2017.
Ojehomon insisted that if the Commissioner of Police has facts that Mr Abayomi Alaka has committed any offence, he should respond to the summons served on him and desist from making prejudicial and unsubstantiated statements in the public against their client.
He advised the public to be calm but at alert to the calculated display by the Commissioner of Police and his men to incite the public against his client.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment