Share this on WhatsApp
By Richards Adeniyi

The Ondo state Governor, Barr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, has vowed to make Ondo the capital of maritime activities in the West Africa sub-region.

Akeredolu gave the assurance during a courtesy call on him in Akure by the Management of HESSMAC Consortium led by its Chairman, Chief Ope Bademosi.

He said with the diverse natural and mineral potentials of the Sunshine State in agriculture, bitumen, gas, longest and deepest coastline; a seaport in the state would have the capacity to berth any cargo ship which no other ports in West Africa could harbour.

The governor explained that the Industrial Park in Ore would be the tip of the iceberg when compared to the development projects being facilitated by his administration to ultimately open up the state and turn around its economy.

“The moment we have this, every other person will be convinced that we should move to Ilaje area where the largest sea port in West Africa is most feasible,” he said.

Earlier the Chairman of HESSMAC Consortium, Chief Ope Bademosi informed the governor of the desire of his firm to invest in the Ondo State Industrial Park, Ore to help actualize the present administration projects to create over 80,000 direct employments.

While assuring the governor on the business network of HESSMAC Consortium to attract foreign investments from diverse sectors to Ondo State, Chief Bademosi said his firm was prepared to make Ondo State Industrial Park, Ore, “a business hub like no other place in Nigeria”, with the aim of promoting sustainable industrial developments in Nigeria.

ALSO SEE: SERAP challenges Saraki over N3bn yearly earning of senator

“It is an open invitation to investors all over the world to invest in the manufacturing at the Industrial Park. Our role as a corporation is to pave the way for investors.

“The development of industrial parks means not only constructing factories, but  setting up and providing all the necessary facilities like roads, power, telecom, water, shopping malls, banking among others. Our job is to facilitate these”, he said.

In a video presentation, a member of the team, Dr. Cornelius Shogunle, said the Ore Industrial Park is good location for business and an important hub, connecting all parts of the country and perhaps the most important trade route in modern West Africa.

Dr. Shogunle said the initiative of the State Government to procure a tri-fuel 30Megawatts turbine power plant (completed and extended to 60MW), to power all prospective industries within the park would definitely make the park operationally attractive to investors to enable the state takes its place in the global market.

Also, Managing Director of the company, Mr. Femi Akinkuebi said the shabby industrialization policies in South-West Nigeria, created the vacuum which the Industrial Park would leverage on, for the Industrialisation benefits of the Sunshine State.

Top government functionaries present during the visit include: the Deputy Governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi; Secretary to the State Government, Hon Ifedayo Abegunde; Head of Service, Mr. Oluwatoyin Akinkuotu; Chief of Staff to the Governor, Chief Olugbenga Ale; Special Adviser to the Governor on Development and Investment, Mr Boye  Oyewumi.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment