Share this on WhatsApp

The Nigerian Army announced on Friday that it had reclaimed all territories from Boko Haram insurgents in the North-East.

Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, the Deputy Director Army Public Relations said in Maiduguri while dismissing a report as “misleading”, that indicated seven of the 27 local government areas of Borno State were still under the control of Boko Haram.

Frowning at the reports, Col Nwachukwu described it as falsehood tailored towards misinforming members of the public on the true security situation in the North-East.




He said Operation Lafiya Dole had recorded significant successes in the counterterrorism operation that has led to the routing of the insurgents from their major tactical enclave in Sambisa forest and their spiritual headquarters at Alagarno.

In a statement, he explained, “It is very crucial to set the record straight by making it crystal clear that contrary to this misleading report, the Boko Haram terrorists do not hold or control any Local Government Area in Borno or in the North-East as claimed by some elements.



ALSO SEE: PMB: Theory and practice of Igbo Marginalization



“Local government areas, hitherto, controlled by Boko Haram have been liberated by troops of Operation Lafiya Dole.

“The troops have continued to ensure security in the liberated areas after routing out the insurgents. Displaced persons are also encouraged to return to their communities, to resume their normal life,” he added.

The Army spokesperson further listed the exercises they have participated to include Operations DEEP PUNCH, CHIKIN GUDU and RAWAN KADA, adding that the operations were conducted in collaboration with the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF).

“These operations culminated in the degradation and incapacitation of Boko Haram insurgents. Apparently, this is the reason the insurgents are striving to remain relevant by resorting to callous use of women and children to carry out suicide bomb attacks on soft and vulnerable targets,” he said.

Nwachukwu, who said that a special Mobile Strike Force was launched in the theatre of operations to effectively patrol localities, said a total of 82 Boko Haram insurgents were killed in combat and 630 remote settlements cleared by troops.

Col Nwachukwu noted that the army  was not waiting only to repel attacks as erroneously painted, but are after the fleeing terrorists with a view to decapitating them.

“The insurgents are on the run and could not hold or control any territory. Boko Haram lacks the capability to hold any territory in the North-East.”

Col Nwachukwu cautioned members of the public not be misguided or misinformed by people that do not wish the country well. He urged them to cooperate with security agencies to fight terrorists.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment