Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode joined Muslims across the State to celebrate the 2017 Eid-el-Kabir festival, with a pledge to ensure that the dividend of good governance is evenly and fairly distributed.
Speaking at Iberekodo Primary School in Ibeju Lekki, one of the 20 centres designated by the State Government to mark the festival, Governor Ambode reiterated that as part of his promise to run an all-inclusive government, no part of the State will be left behind in the scheme of affairs, just as he urged residents to continue to play their parts to bring about the desired transformation.
He rejoiced with the Muslim Ummah in the State, saying that the celebration signified the triumph of faith and the assurance that Almighty Allah will always open a way for those who have absolute trust in his grace.
“This is a day of sacrifice to commemorate Prophet Ibrahim’s faith in Allah. In this celebration, there is great lesson for all of us especially as we strive to achieve the Lagos of our collective dream.
“We must remain hopeful and keep faith in the absolute power of Allah to turn our aspirations into reality. It is however, very important, for all of us to play our own part just as Prophet Ibrahim did,” Ambode said.
The Governor specifically used the occasion to assure residents of the State of his commitment to their welfare irrespective of tribe, colour or creed.
ALSO SEE: EFCC traces 8 assets to Ibru, 2 to Diezani in Dubai
Explaining the rationale behind the simultaneous celebration of the festival across 20 centres in the State, Ambode said before now, residents flock the Lagos House to celebrate with the first family during any festive period, thereby subjecting them to travel long distance, but that the new method would ensure everyone is catered for as part of the commitment of his administration ensure inclusiveness.
“Let me again use this opportunity to reassure all residents that we remain committed to the welfare and wellbeing of all citizens irrespective of their location within the State without prejudice to ethnic, religious and socio economic background.
“We will ensure that the dividend of good governance is evenly and fairly distributed in line with our pledge not to leave any part of the State behind,” he said.
Besides, the Governor thanked Lagosians for showing absolute faith in the ability of the present administration to continue to deliver on the electoral mandate as demonstrated by the overwhelming vote for the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the recent Local Government election in the State.
Speaking with journalists, Governor Ambode urged Nigerians to continue to spread love and uphold religious tolerance for the progress of the country.
He said: “The whole essence of this celebration is to share love and to also touch people who are in need. We must continue to spread love and preach love. With religious tolerance, Nigeria will be better.
“For obvious reasons, Lagos has been very peaceful. Our attitude has changed positively. We are more peaceful, we are very calm and Lagosians are seeing that that attitude is what can give us prosperity and that is what I want the people to continue to uphold,” the Governor said.
In his welcome address, Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Hon Muslim Folami said the celebration of Eid-el-Kabir simultaneously across the State was designed by the present administration to positively impact on the grassroots and identify with the Muslim community.
He said since inception, Governor Ambode has been running an all-inclusive government where no part and section of the State is left behind, saying that the celebration was another demonstrable evidence of the commitment of the Governor to always connect with the people.
Speaking separately at the event, Chief Imam of Lekki Local Council Development Authority (LCDA), Sheikh Ismail Abdul Ganny and Chief Missioner of Ibeju Lekki, Alhaji Idowu Itunu commended Governor Ambode for the massive development witnessed in the State since he came on board, saying that all parts of the State have been positively touched.
They also commended the Governor for putting the celebration together, and offered prayers for the first family, Lagos State and Nigeria.

			
			Post Views: 
			105