Share this on WhatsApp

By OKOSUN DENNIS

The Jordanian Air Force has expressed its willingness and readiness to collaborate with the Nigerian Airforce (NAF) to improve its operational capabilities to combat insurgency in the country.




The Commander, Royal Jordanian Airforce (RJAF), Maj Gen. Yousef Al Hnaity, said on Wednesdayduring his visit to the Logistic Command of the Nigerian Airforce at Sam Ethnan Base in Ikeja, Lagos.

The commander said that  some strategic plans would be put in place in the nearest future when they go back, hoping to offer them to NAF commanders.

“We thank you for letting us see your facilities, hangers and aircrafts, also getting the picture of the challenges you have because we have had similar challenges in the past.

“We can work together to better develop our Airforce capabilities based on our experience because surely you have the elements here but it is just putting things in the right format with some trainings while improving on the officers that you have.

“So I think we can assign a committee from both sides to develop and improve on all these elements, some related to training which is human element, equipment, skills and management of the whole system here,” he reiterated.

The Jordanian commander while speaking with journalists also said that there were many areas the two countries could mutual cooperation starting with the logistics, maintenance and at operational level.

“I see many levels we can work upon together, getting a general comprehensive plan, based on our experience that can improve our countries.

“What we see here is that the challenges facing Nigeria i.e terrorism is similar to what we have in Jordan because the terrorists are in the  borders which also applies to Jordan.

“So, I think there are many common goals to work upon together, which is aimed at improving our capabilities, capacities to bring the countries to stability and deal with the terrorists.



ALSO SEE: Fayose dares North



The commander, however, reiterated that the committee would be set up very soon  to move the prospective plans forward.


National Daily gathered that the visit was to strengthen the existing bilateral relationship between the two countries.

During the visit, the Jordanian commander toured the facilities of the logistic command including 205 Rottery Wing, where the Commanding Officer of the Wing, Squadron Leader Adedeji Omokunga, appreciated the Jordanian commander in his aim to work with the country in surmounting the challenges facing the command.

Earlier, the Air Officer Commanding (AOC), Logistic Command, Air Vice Marshal Ibrahim Yahaya appreciated the Jordanian commander for his visit, while assuring him of the command’s support in working with Jordan.

The AOC who gave the Jordanian commander a brief history about the logistic command, said the two countries would work together in terms of trainings and management aimed at improving both AirForce.

National Daily learnt that the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar had visited Jordan in August this year to initiate collaboration between the RJAF and the NAF.
Maj Gen. Yousef Al Hnaity, would also interact with NAF frontline pilots in Maiduguri and Yola.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment