Share this on WhatsApp



The Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF) has urged selected scholars for the 2017/ 2018 overseas MSC programmes to ensure discipline in the various universities of their studies.
The Executive Secretary, Dr Bello Aliyu Gusua, gave the advice at the 2017/ 2018 PTDF Oversea scholarship induction programme for MSC scholars, on Tuesday in Abuja.
He said that 195 scholars were selected for the overseas Master’s programme while 184 for PhD out of the 4,949 candidates that were shortlisted for the aptitude test.
“You emerged successfully through a rigorous and painful driven process.
“We examined closely your performance and in selecting you, we were mindful of the various choice of the programmes you are about to undertake.
“Our focus was on programmes that are relevant to the oil and gas sector and we are satisfied with the selection we have done,’’ he said.
ALSO SEE: Nigerians arrested in Germany
According to him, the scholars are going to study in various universities in the world and are expected to be of high moral standing.
He said the past beneficiaries of the fund had done tremendously well and had gotten commendation from the universities they studied.
“ You are going for study but above all, you are expected to be of high discipline because you are there not only to represent yourself and families, but Nigeria at large.
“Obey the rules and regulations of you host countries, excel and make Nigeria proud,’’ he said.
Commenting on the process of selection, he said that apart from oil producing communities, five best candidates were selected for the programme for each state.
He added that oil producing  states got six candidates each as special preference was given to them.
PTDF, in July, said it  used federal character in shortlisting of about 4,949 candidates for the electronic Aptitude test for the overseas and local Msc/PHD scholarship scheme.
The fund said that the idea of the federal character was one of the reasons why the test was being taken in different geo-political zones in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment