By OKOSUN DENNIS
The prompt intervention of men of the Rapid Response Squad (RSS) on Sunday prevented the escalation of killings by friends of a barbecue seller (Suya) who was shot dead few days ago at Okokomaiko.
National Daily gathered that on Friday, 14th September 2017, an argument arose between an unnamed man that sells Suya at his spot and the son of Sarki Hausawa identified as Bashiru Ahmed.
It was further gathered that Bashiru had accused the Suya man of laughing at him for no reason; an accusation that he denied.
However, the suya sellers was said to have told the accuser that he actually laughed at someone who fell into the gutter but not him.
Not satisfied with his explanation, Bashiru and his gang threatened the barbecue seller and threw his suya meat into the gutter and left.
However, a police source disclosed that after they had left, the Suya man and some sympathizers went to report the matter to the Sarki, Bashiru’s father, Alhaji Adamu Ahmed Gaya.
ALSO SEE: Military invasion in Abia state: Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu has failed as a leader
Not happy with what the son had done, he promised to pay for the suya but the owner declined the compensation.
The following day, to the surprise of all and sundry, the Suya seller was allegedly shot dead by two unknown assailants before escaping.
As a result, the police was said to have swung into action and arrested Bashiru Ahmed, who was a prime suspect as one responsible for the murder of the Suya seller.
The situation was said to have gone worse today, Sunday, 17th September, 2017, when some friends of the deceased suya man sighted an associate of Bashiru about 1200 noon and pursued him, caught up with him and killed him near Alaba Rago.
The irate crowd, National Daily learnt swiftly moved to the Palace of the Sarki and set it ablaze.
Following the murder and setting ablaze of the palace, the Area Commander Area “E” Command, ACP Auwal Musa, the Commander RRS, ACP Tunji Disu and some officers of OP MESA moved into action to calm nerves that had gathered to unleash terror.
It was learnt that to ensure there was no escalation of attacks, they held a meeting with the elders of the community appealing to them to sheath the sword with a view to forestalling reprisal attacks.

			
			Post Views: 
			73