The Nigerian Communication Commission has highlighted the importance of consumers in the telecoms industry, even as it stressed the need for consumer satisfaction and protection as enshrined in the eight Point Agenda of the Commission.
Prof. Umar Danbatta, the executive vice chairman of the Commission, made the remark during the 81st edition of the Telecoms Consumer Parliament (TCP) held in Lagos.
He added that “it has taken steps to ensure that the telecommunications sector remains vibrant”.
Mr. Sunday Dare, the executive commission, Stakeholders Management, NCC, who represented the Executive Vice Chairman, said that “the commission would carry out its regulatory functions to ensure that the companies operating in the industry were healthy”.
The Chairman said that the regulatory body had made interventions to prevent disruptions in the consumer’s experience.
According to him, “NCC has commenced aggressive enforcement of the Code of Corporate Governance to ensure that licensees in the industry continue to operate as viable businesses.
“The consumer deserves all the credits for the past and indeed the future successes of this industry.
“The Nigerian telecommunications consumers are at the centre stage of our regulation.
“We at the NCC, being consumer centric regulatory organisation have decided to celebrate consumers of the Nigerian telecommunications industry consistent with the eight point agenda that I set out when I assumed office in 2015.
The number two and six items of the agenda are the core drivers of the NCC year of telecommunications consumer initiative.
“While the number two item of the agenda addresses improved quality of service.
And item six is concerned with protection and empowerment of the telecommunications consumers,” he said.
ALSO SEE: House clears air on NGO Regulation Bill
He also stated that all NCC’s initiatives such as SIM card registration, Mobile Number Portability, Broadband policy implementation, development of 2442 and 622 short codes as well as various consumer awareness campaigns were to ensure consumer satisfaction and protection.
Danbatta added that the commission would continue to look out for and protect the interest of the consumer without compromising the interests of other stakeholders in the industry.
Mr Abdullahi Maikano, director, Consumer Affairs Bureau (CAB) of NCC, said that over the years, TCP had proven to be an innovative way of bringing all stakeholders together to discuss and proffer solutions to industry issues.
Maikano said that the TCP had continued to occupy a pride of place in the commission’s activities.
He said that NCC would continue to provide significant resources to ensure that the parliament is held regularly for the benefit of consumers and the industry.

			
			Post Views: 
			67