Share this on WhatsApp



Turn the heat against Kanu over IPOB




 
Stakeholders in the South East are beginning to weigh the consequences or cost of further bloodshed in Igbo land over the agitation for the Sovereign State of Biafra. Accordingly, the heat is beginning to turn against the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu.
National Daily gathered that a group in Abia State, Umuahia Youth Movement, has appealed to Governor Okezie Ikpeazu to dethrone the father of Nnamdi Kanu, IPOB leader, His Royal Majesty, Israel Okwu Kanu, the paramount ruler of Isiama Afaraukwu in Umuahia.
The Umuahia Youth Movement had protested that the governor should dethrone the traditional ruler within 24-hours because he failed to caution his son, Nnamdi Kanu, leader of IPOB against instigating violence in the region.
The group in a letter to the Governor Ikpeazu threatened that should the governor decline to dethrone the monarch, they will be forced to take laws into their hands and dethrone the traditional ruler.
The Movement contended that Nnamdi Kanu’s father is unfit to continue in office for his failure to caution his son who has plunged the state into chaos.
In the letter signed by Ifeanyi Okwudili, President; Kasarachi Ubani, Vice President; and Anayo Ofor, Secretary, the Youth movement declared:
“With tears and sorrow, the Umuahia Youth Movement respectfully write to request the dethronement of Nnamdi Kanu’s father as a traditional ruler of our clan.
ALSO SEE: Umuahia Youths issue Gov. Ikpeazu ultimatum to dethrone Kanu’s father 
“It beats our imagination that a man who calls himself a Royal Father and an Elder could not call his son to order but rather encourage him in his madness that have plunged Umuahia city to a great crisis today.
“Sir, recall that Umuahia have been the most peaceful capital city in Nigeria to live and do business but just because of one man, we are today facing the wrath of the Federal government of Nigeria.
“Our shops, markets, schools, churches and all banks have been shut down. For the past three days we have been indoors for fear of been attacked by the military just because of one man whose father is our traditional ruler.
ALSO SEE: Biafra: Nnamdi Kanu petitions UN, US, others over Army invasion of Igboland
“Based on the above, we hereby request the he be dethroned within 24 hours or we will take the laws into our hands and dethrone him and even strip him unclad and raze his house. “We appeal to every well-meaning Nigerian as well to prevail on Governor Ikpeazu to, as a matter of urgency, dethrone Nnamdi Kanu’s father.
“We also request the Operation Python Dance should remain in all streets of Umuahia as any attempt to withdraw will make the IPOB criminals rob our shops and houses.
“Sir, we assure you that we remain one Nigeria and will join hands with you to make our country Nigeria and state Abia the best among all the countries of the world. “Please accept the assurances of our esteemed regards.”


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment