Share this on WhatsApp



The new Sorento is the first SUV from Kia available with the company’s new eight-speed automatic transmission. Designed in-house by Kia and launched in 2016, the transmission boasts 143 newly-patented technologies and delivers a slick-shifting, more decisive drive, while reducing emissions slightly.
Kia Motors Europe has announced a range of upgrades to the Sorento, the company’s seven-seat flagship SUV. The new Sorento will be on public display for the first time at the 2017 Frankfurt International Motor Show, and is due on sale across Europe from Q4 2017.
 
The new Kia Sorento features a refreshed exterior and interior design, and is available with Kia’s latest safety and in-car connectivity technologies. A new GT Line variant is also available, as well as an efficient new eight-speed automatic transmission for 2.2-litre diesel model.
 
Michael Cole, Chief Operating Officer of Kia Motors Europe, commented: “The Sorento accounted for 15,769 sales across Europe in 2016, and it remains an important contributor to the company’s sustained sales growth. The current model has a broad appeal among buyers, with a combination of high practicality, handsome design, and good value. 
Upgrades to the car’s exterior and interior design, safety, and in-car technology all add to the appeal of the car and will ensure sales remain strong.”
ALSO SEE: Recession: Why 0.55% growth is nothing to rejoice about – expert
 
Inside, the cabin features a newly-designed steering wheel and driver instrument cluster, as well as a new climate control LCD display. The dashboard also features a new Audio Visual Navigation (AVN) system (see ‘Technology’).
 
The new Sorento features an increased proportion of soft touch materials and leather for a more premium cabin ambience. Customers can specify the interior in single-tone (black) or two-tone (black and stone beige), with cloth or leather upholstery. Optional brown or light grey leather upholstery is also available. 

 
Compared to other automatic transmissions, Kia’s new eight-speed unit requires fewer control valves, enabling a more direct mechanical link to the engine. This allows the transmission to shift more quickly than the outgoing six-speed automatic transmission. 
For the first time, the Sorento is available with Kia’s latest DRiVE WISE Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS). DRIVE WiSE embodies Kia’s philosophy to create intelligently safe vehicles with active safety technologies designed to avoid or mitigate the effects of collisions.

Other new safety features available on the Sorento include: Lane Keeping Assist System; High Beam Assist, and full LED headlamps with Dynamic Bending Light. These new technologies make the Sorento one of the safest cars in its class.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment