Share this on WhatsApp



 
By Odunewu Segun
TStv has alerted the public of a fake twitter account posing as TSTV just as some agents are working in some quarters to frustrate the October launch date set by the company.
On its official twitter handle, it advised Nigerians to disregard any tweets from @tstv Nigeria and @tstvcentre, saying both accounts are fakes. 
It went further to reaffirm all its promises as well as its intention to revolutionize the pay-tv industry not only in Nigeria but also beyond its shores. 
While many would-be subscribers have expressed various reasons they might try out TStv on its October launch, the pay as you go proposition of the company has come out to be the most significant of all its promises.
Other pay TV providers had consistently argued that the model was not possible to implement in Nigeria on the grounds that they bought the contents they relay as a whole and not in bits.
TStv will roll out its Pay-As-You-Consume plan on October 1, 2017, and industry watchers predict that it would win over a lot of customers from its competitors.
Analysts have expressed the hope that TStv would, indeed, redeem its promise of offering unique services, and thus break the MultiChoice’s monopoly in the business in Nigeria.
ALSO SEE:  Another amazing new service from Kwesé TV
The move by the incoming operator is aimed at attracting more subscribers to their service, which is considered to have been tailored along the yearning of Nigerian pay TV customers.
TStv, which is a DTH pay TV, will be offering 200 rich blend of local and international channels and packages for entertainment, including news, sports, kids, health, etc.
These will be distributed on the ABS 3A Africa beam, located at 3 degrees west, beginning with 100 channels. The TV will also show live sports like Premier League, UEFA Champions League, Europa League and so much more.
Some sport channels on TStv Africa are Sport 1-10, Fox Sport HD, and Ts Sports. Running on 4.5G network, every subscriber will get 20G of data for N3, 000 monthly.
The data can also be used for video calls conferences with camera and WiFi. The TStv decoder will have 50GB hard disk to record TV programmes and a pause/play function.
Bright Echefu, Managing Director of TStv, during the signing of the multi-transponder agreement with their ABS partner, said their services would offer viewers the experience of HD and SD video, internet services, broadband, TV and radio, at a very affordable rate.
“It is the first Nigerian TV to launch a pay-as-you-consume, so you can pause your subscription whenever you are travelling. It is just N5000 for the decoder and dish and subscription prices ranges from N200, N500, N1,000, N1,500 and N3,000, respectively”, he said.
TSTv is a joint venture owned by ABS and Telcom Satellites TV. The company’s signals will be distributed on the ABS 3A Africa beam, located at 3 degrees west.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment