Share this on WhatsApp
By IFEOMA Ikem

The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, has emphasized the need to improve the welfare of police officers for a functional police force.

He made the called while commissioning the Muhammadu Buhari housing estate which has 1,083 units of three bedroom semi-detached and two bedroom fully detached sits on over 65 hectares of land at Agemowo, Badagry Lagos state.

According to him , the Nigerian police force will henceforth be guided by international core values of policing with integrity, ensuring that the rule of law prevails in all our actions and activities.

“I also assured police personnel of my determination to accelerate all issues as regards the welfare of police men and their families such as promotion, prompt payment of salaries, provision of affordable housing units among others.

Idris said that all his promises he pursues with zeal because he believes that police officers deserve the best support in terms of welfare and other logistics given the nature of the job.

“Therefore with high sense of fulfilment and honour ,I commission the Muhammadu Buhari Housing Estate Mowo, Badagry, Lagos state on the 28 day of September 2017 in keeping my promise to my hard working police officers across the country.

“If you may recall, similar projects were commissioned in other parts of the country such as katsina, Zamfara, Niger and FCT while that of Enugu will kick off soon.

He added that the welfare of the personnel of the Nigeria Police force especially the rank and file is utmost for a more functional proactive and effective police force.

“Consequently, i enjoin you to be at your best applying best practices in our dealings with the civil populace with total loyalty to our dear nation. I also thank the police cooperative be society and our partners for making this dream come through.” he said.

ALSO SEE: Jordanian Air Force to collaborate with NAF to combat insurgency

The Commissioner of Police, Cooperative, CP Shola David commended the IG for the initiative saying that the project was in fulfilment of the IG’s promise to improve the welfare of Nigeria Police Officers.

“Today is a remarkable day in the history of the Nigeria Police under the leadership of the IG as he commissions the 1083 units of flats at Muhammadu Buhari Estate.

This is the first phase which has 312 units consisting of three and two bedroom flats and oficers of the Nigeria Police had shown interest.
Share this on WhatsApp