A mobile app is important to startups in so many ways. It increases sales and it is user-friendly. As a result, startups always want to join the mobile app bandwagon.
Therefore, it is one of the first things they do. However, Jumia travel, the leading online travel agency, have observed that there are some things you seriously need to consider before making the decision to launch a mobile app for your business. Here are some of the things.
Does Your Startup Need An App?
There are some businesses that mobile application is not essential for them to run smoothly. This is especially for startups that do not have a strong online presence. So, as an entrepreneur, you should ask yourself if your startup requires an app.
Target Audience
So many young persons are using internet savvy smartphones and it is likely that they will be the ones to download your app. But if your services are not targeted at these millenials, you do not really need a mobile app. Clearly, it is key to know whom you are designing your mobile app for.
ALSO SEE: Three mobile apps that might help your productivity
Cost Implications
Since your business is a startup and you are still in the teething phase, you have to consider the cost of developing an app.
This is because there are other aspects of the business you can invest the money you want to use in creating an app. Remember that the app must be available on both Android and iPhone.
Free or Paid
The truth is only a handful of people want to pay for using a mobile app no matter how essential it is.
They will say there are many other apps that serve the same purpose that is free. Thus, you may lose customers. This is why you should consider the cost of designing the app.
Market Research
If you have data, it is will be easier for you to make the app decision. Do a bit of market research by checking out how many of your competitors have a mobile app and also the performance of the app.
If you are happy with what you see, you can decide to contract developers to build your app that will improve the flaws you noticed in your competitor’s app.
Can You Manage Complaints from Customers Who Use the App?
This is a question of capacity. Your startup is just evolving and you don’t want to carry too much burden and be overwhelmed.
If do not have the staff and capacity to handle complaints and inquiries that as to do with using and downloading your app, you should shelve the idea of designing one.

			
			Post Views: 
			153