By OKOSUN DENNIS

Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ) was like Mecca of a sort on Saturday as children from different schools trooped into the campus and had lectures on Children Security and Safety Awareness.

They were taught how to avoid being kidnapped considering that in recent times, some schools like the Turkish International School, Lagos State Model Secondary School and others were stormed by mindless kidnappers, seizing children and their teachers until ransom were paid before they were released.

Organised by “Project Secure” in collaboration with other corperate organisations, the one-day programme was anchored by Richard Amuwa, a security expert and broadcaster of “Security on Radio” . He told National Daily that it became imperative to sensitize children considering their naivety, and educate them not to take or accept gift items from strangers.

He observed that trends indicate that some children abducted outside their school premises were made possible due to accepting or taken instruction from strangers, who took advantage of their innocence to kidnap them for ransom.

“Children see every uncle as a friend that is why some people play on their intelligence. Some are so naïve. It is very important to give them adequate security awareness and information,” he said.

ALSO SEE: Kidnappers lay siege to Epe

“I have a lot of children that call me to ask what should I do about this threat or the other. We still have a lot to do in terms of reaching out to most of these children. My plan is to reach as much as 300,000 children a year.

“In subsequent editions, we shall go to places like Epe, Ikorodu, Igando, Ajegunle to cover more grounds and reach out to most children,” He explained.

To better deal with the myriad of insecurity problem Nigerians face, he recommended “Security education and physical security, good CCTV and access control and good security personnel.

“Security education should be inculcated in our curriculum. By now, we should be having police command in charge of schools and the duty of the commissioner will be to ensure schools are safe.

For Adebowale Isreal, a 15-year-old SS2 studentt,  security studies especially on kidnapping should be included in the school curriculum.

One of the patents who attended, Mrs Abimbola David, said she has learnt a lot about security and commended the organisers for the initiatives.

“When we go to Parents Teachers Association (PTA) meeting, we don’t discuss security but dwell so much on school fees and inter-house sports and other unimportant things.

“But after listening to various lecturers, I am more concerned about children security and safety. When I go back to my children’s school, I am going to ask what they have on ground for children security and safety and what fire drill they have in case there is fire outbreak.



“These have never crossed my mind but often times leave it to the school. This is a good initiative of the organisers. In the area of kidnapping, the children have been well informed, Mrs David added.

Mrs Oboh, another parent, is more alert now.

“Security is my own concern, my children and entire family. We now know how to react to critical situations. The seminar is an Eye-opener and should be taken to private and public schools. Security should be part of the curriculum.”

Idris Abdulraheem, a 14-year-old student, noted that he has been taught to scream when one is being kidnapped and that he should not respond to call from a stranger.




			
			Post Views: 
			81