Share this on WhatsApp



As part of the activities centered on supporting locally manufactured merchandises especially in the world of beauty, Weststar has announce its partnership with ‘World PR Media’ for Mercedes-Benz World PR Beauty Business week.
The event slated to hold between 17th and 19th of May 2017 at the Mercedes Benz Centre, Gottlieb Daimler road, Ikate (third roundabout), Lekki, will showcase various beauty arts and tips.
Lovers of Mercedes-Benz as well as beauty enthusiasts are invited to witness the exhibition of various beauty products and services while taking a tour around the luxurious vehicles in the showroom. The three-day event is focused on the ‘Shea Butter Innovation’ and is geared towards enlightening stakeholders with the latest trends in the beauty industry.
Speaking on the event, the CEO World PR – Mrs. Tayo Afolabi stated that interested beauty enthusiasts, make-up artists and beauty entrepreneurs can register to participate in the exhibition by sending a mail to admin@thebeautyreport.com.ng. Participants who register early would be opportune to attend Master-class sections hosted and chaired by top professionals in the beauty and business sectors.
ALSO SEE: Mercedes-Benz Sprinter, solution to logistics problems — Weststar Associates
The exhibition according to the Managing Director of Weststar Associates, Mr. Mirko Plath, will afford auto enthusiasts the opportunity of seeing various latest models of the Mercedes Benz currently on sale in Nigeria.
”At Mercedes-Benz, one key secret to success as well as maintaining the top spot as one of the best automobile manufacturers in the world is providing state of the art luxurious vehicles while preserving an outstanding quality of mobility, service and safety,” Mr.Plath said.
Speaking further, he said Mercedes-Benz as a brand encompasses beauty in all forms, from the inside out, while maintaining premium service, distinctive design philosophy and the implementation of the most advanced technology.
Weststar Associates Limited is the authorized general distributors for Mercedes-Benz, Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep and Ram brands in Nigeria
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment