L-R; Deputy Governor, Dr. Idiat Adebule; Tutor-General/ Permanent Secretary, Education District 1, Dr. Folayinka Ayandele during the inspection of 
exhibited Hydroponic Farming by pupils of Agege Local Government Education Authority. At the 3days Science and Arts Crafts exhibition by Education District 1, Agege.

        
 



exhibits ingenuity

By Lanre Adesanya
The Tutor General/ Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Education District I,  Dr Olufolayinmika Ayandele has affirmed the commitment of the Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode to breast tape a conscious effort geared towards intensifying the knowledge base of the students in  science, arts and crafts.
Ayandele made this affirmation at the Crafts Exhibitions in Science, Art facilitated by the Education District I (comprising Agege, Alimosho and Ifako-Ijaiye) for primary, junior and senior secondary schools.
The epoch making exhibition, held at Crown Pavilion event centre Agege, was part of the programmes earmarked for the celebration of Lagos at 50.
She noted that, “we are showcasing our work in the science. What we are showcasing here is what we can all be proud of. These students are celebrating Lagos at 50 by showcasing what they have done. Gov. Ambode has high hope in these students; hence the exhibitions of these creative work to display their talents. We are expecting them to come up with more creative works and talents that can transform the landscape of science and arts.
“The government has shown commitment to help and assist them to become solution providers to myriads of challenges facing the society,” Tutor General said.
Ayandele, applauded Ambode for his giant strides in education and enhancement of the welfare of teachers, said a school, Forego Private Academy exhibited ‘2wp tri-powered generator’ using urine.
She added: “From the various works done by these students, we know that our governor is not only supporting education, but also encourage the teachers with all the necessary supports.”
ALSO SEE: Ekiti mosque demolition: Fayose, muslim leaders reach compromise
According to her, the success story of education in the state is also connected to the passion, commitment and spirit of excellence by all stakeholders in the sector.
She urged all stakeholders to join hands together to take education to next level in the state, the school principals and parents that were present at the event were impressed about the students’ creativity and commended their ingenuity
Mrs Barakat Agboola, one of the parents, said: “l am very impressed with these, they have done beyond our imaginations. We thank God. I will advise the government to put in more efforts to get the best out of the children. We didn’t expect our children could do these. This should be encouraged further.”
Another parent, Mr Lateef Oladele added: “With these, we are happy to enroll our children in public schools. We thank the governor. We are glad with these performances, our children are fantastic, all these projects are great. All of them need the help of government to develop their talents.”
Earlier, the Deputy Governor, Dr. Idiat Adebule, charged the teachers to encourage pupils to discover their talents, build skills to support innovation and develop solutions for societal challenges.
Tutor-General/ Permanent Secretary, Education District 1, Dr. Folayinka Ayandele flanked by pupils of Alimosho Local Government Education Authority during the cash presention for their artworks of Lagos. At the 3days Science and Arts Crafts exhibition by Education District 1, Agege.
She disclosed that the best projects at District level will be selected to compete with other districts at the state levels for grand finale.
Some of the creative works exhibited at the event included: Solar Dryer by Community Primary School, Alimosho aimed at enhancing food security through provision of healthy food preservative method.
ALSO SEE: Isawo residents demand army barracks
Agege local government education authority exhibited Hydroponic Farming to grow vegetables and plants in the soil less condition with the aim of enhancing food security
MARV-Grace Schools, Abule Egba exhibited GSM Control Electronic Circuit.
Also, Abibat Mogaji Millennium Senior Secondary school, Agege exhibited Mobile-Multi-purposed Agricultural and Heat Converter Machine powered by cow dung, while same school presented human circulatory system model.
Meanwhile, Ijaiye Ojokoro Senior High School, Ifako-Ijaiye exhibited Automated Pest Control system which aimed at reducing loss of agricultural products to pests.
 
 

			
			Post Views: 
			466