Share this on WhatsApp





By OKOSUN DENNIS
In consonance with its agenda to ensure that the needy and the less privileged members of the society are well catered for, the Centennial President of the Lions Club International, District 404b-2 Nigeria for 2016/2017, Lion Elder Marce Okey Anyanwu, is set to equip the Aguda Senior Secondary School library with quality text books.
Making this disclosure during his public presentation as the president and other officers of the club in Lagos at the weekend, listed as part of his four-point agenda, the stocking of the school library.
In his acceptance speech, Anyanwu said “I joined Lions Club International at the afternoon of my life.
“Our intention is to make a lasting impact in our local community through a centennial community legacy project. In this service year, we have been involved in some activities, but we can do much more.”
Anyanwu reiterated that he would focus on developing training centre for youths in Surulere; provide medical equipment in collaboration with foreign friends and would ensure that new Lions Signs are erected at strategic points in Surulere for visibility and beautification of the environment.
ALSO SEE: Glaucoma: Lions Club task NOA on dearth of awareness
Why soliciting for support of its project, Lion Carole Johnson noted that with the avalanche of projects outlined to be carried out, when completed, would impact on the needy and less privileged members of the society.

Earlier, Pastor Mrs Ugo, Onwuraokoye held every guest spill bound as she lectured invited guest on “Emotional Intelligence” stressing that there was the need for couples, managers of human resources to be tolerant when dealing with fellow humans noting that we exhibit different character traits that could be managed through tolerance.
She admonished guest to develop the “shocker absolver” to take any emotional stress occasioned by spouses, colleagues in office, and other people one might have contact with during social interactions.
Using herself to draw allusion and mirror the entire society, explained that she was brought up in a hostile and failed marital background which affected her psychological orientation and by extension, her temperament.
She praised the husband for helping to overcome temperament and psychological disorientation.
Mrs Ugo, who is also the President of Train people on emotional intelligence; fight against sexual abuse and rape as well as prepare members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on work place and conflict resolution, further added that “no matter the skill you acquire, you must also know how to manage your emotional state.”
“Human beings should know how to mange their temperament no matter the circumstances”
While asking some thought provoking rhetorical questions, Mrs Ugo noted: “Why do you act the way you do and respond to situation the way you do?
“An emotional competent person has the capacity to manage a beast. Emotional strength is greater and mightier than physical intelligence,” she reiterated.
National Daily gathered that during the occasion, new entrant were inducted and decorated by the Centennial District Governor, 404b-2, Mr Taiwo Adewunmi.
Family members of Lion Anyanwu, the wife, Deaconess Mary Anyanwu, their children as well as the Commandant, Nigerian Army School of Public Relations and Information, Brig Gen John Agim, represented by Col Ochaguba, the out gone President Lion graced the occasion that held at the Sentinel Event centre, Maryland, Ikeja.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment