Share this on WhatsApp

Accuses Buhari of eliminating Christians from government

By TOM GARBA, Yola

The President of the Youth Wing of Christian Association of Nigeria (YWICAN), Engr Daniel David Kadzai, has decried the attitude of the Federal Government on the suspension of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Engr Babachir David Lawal, over allegation of N200 million contract for cutting grass at the IDP camp in the North East awarded to a company said to belong to him.

David Kadzai was of the view that “the suspension of the SGF is totally a foul play by the Buhari administration;” adding, “and we suspect a tactical removal of Christians from this administration.’

“Since Babachir queried the registration of JAMB contracted to Jaiz Bank over the registration of students, it appears the President was not comfortable with his actions, not because of grass cutting contract. He was said to have been cleared of all allegations as regards to any controversy involving a company of cutting grass of IDPs Camp in Borno under the Presidential Initiative on the North East (PINE),” David said.

“Lawal’s anger against the JAMB registration awarded to Jaiz Bank was because the bank lacks the standard or technicality to handle the millions of Nigerian Students seeking admission into various institutions of higher learning; the bank is not having the needed spread of branches across the country and students from southern part of the country will have problems with registration,” the YWICAN President explained.

ALSO SEE: Buhari appoints Habibat Lawal new SGF, Arab Yadam DG NIA

Kadzai alleged that since Buhari became President, he denied Christians Association access to Aso Rock so that they cannot register their grievances against the federal government.

He, therefore, stated that “the suspension of Babachir Lawal and the DG of NIA, Ambassador Ayo Oke, was a plot to eliminate Christians from the President Muhammad Buhari government.”

“From the key appointments made by this government, it is clear that the President is still maintaining what he said in 2003 in Sokoto that Muslims should vote only Muslims; if he makes 10 appointments, eight are Muslims and only two are Christians,” He remarked.

The CAN Youth President noted that the suspension of the duo is to facilitate their replacement with Muslims to complete the circle of a complete Muslim government.

He expressed concern over the selective indictments and arrests of former and serving Christians in the Buhari administration.

Kadzai declared; “For three months, Buhari refused to confirm the present CJN because he is a Christian, but after Senate rejected confirming EFCC as acting Chairman two times, he is still in office working. What corruption is worse than the action of the President on Magu’s case,” Kadzai protested, noting that despite the volumes of DSS reports indicting Magul, the 
President still insists Magu should remain in office because he is covered by his religion.”

The Youth Wing of CAN President emphasized that the president should bear in mind that he is sowing the seed of religious disunity and that Christians will wait his party, All Progressives Congress (APC), come 2019.

Meanwhile, Dr. Habibat Lawal from Bauchi State and Amb. Arab Yadam from Plateau State, were said to have been appointed as acting SGF and Director General, Nigeria Intelligence Agency (NIA), respectively, by President Buhari.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment