By Ediale Kingsley

‘Anikulapo: Voice of The Orisha’, the comic series based on Afrobeat musician and activist Seun Anikulapo Kuti is out. In the main edition, Anikulapo who is based on Seun Anikulapo Kuti, kidnaps the son of the President and enlists him in the revolution.

Kidnapping the President’s son has its consequences. A military strike team is sent to Anikulapo’s home. Violence and mayhem ensue. Does this sound familiar?

In 1977, the Kalakuta Republic, the haven of legendary Afrobeat pioneer Fela Kuti (Seun Kuti’s father) was ransacked by soldiers. His mother was thrown from a balcony. The injuries she sustained led to her eventual death. The Kalakuta Republic was burnt to the ground with many injured. The event is still an emotional moment for the Anikulapo Kuti clan.

ALSO SEE: Davido’s Sex-tape: Fresh responses from the If crooner

Vortex Comics, the publisher of the comic series describes ‘Anikulapo: Voice of The Orisha’ as “an “R” Rated comic book which focuses on the story of Anikulapo III, a spirit summoner who can call open the ancient deities (Orisha) through his music, he uses this ability to combat corrupt governance, social evils and his arch enemy Baba General who happens to be the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”

Seun Anikulapo-Kuti is the major inspiration behind the soon to be released comic series ‘ Anikulapo: Voice of The Orisha’. Anikulapo the character considers it his duty and responsibility to fight corrupt politicians with any means at his disposal. Anikulapo is not a lone ranger. He has seven wives (sounds familiar?) who help him on his mission. His wives use Nguni and Calinda (old African fighting techniques) to help Anikulapo make Nigeria a better place.

“The comic preaches revolution, change and political-socio-economic freedom which we believe can bring a certain level of consciousness to the youth and adults alike,” founder and creative director of Vortex Comics Somto Ajuluchukwu explains.


			
			Post Views: 
			94