Share this on WhatsApp



 
Weststar Associates has unveiled a more refined and spacious Mercedes-Benz Sprinter for the mass transport of people and goods around the country.
With low emissions and fuel consumption, the Sprinter provides first class transportation of passengers and cargo safely to any desired destination, taking the strain off the driver’s daily workload by yielding a load compartment of 17 cubic meters, which accommodates a payload of 2695 kilograms.
The cargo van fits two front seats to an empty cargo bay, while the crew van essentially adds a three-place rear bench seat to the cargo van, raising seating capacity to five. In addition, the Sprinter can be easily converted to a minibus when seats are installed in the cargo area; thus accommodating up to 12 passengers across its four-row seating. The crew and passenger vans are available in two wheelbases and two roof heights (standard and high), with a third roof height (super high) available on the cargo van.
Powered by a 258HP 6 cylinder petrol engine, the Mercedes-Benz Sprinter possesses a gross vehicle weight of 3.2tonnes and runs on a five speed automatic transmission for petrol engines or an optional 7G-TRONIC PLUS seven speed transmission for diesel engines. The available BlueEfficiency package helps to reduce fuel consumption to 7 liters per 100 kilometers as its eco start/stop function promptly stops the engine during waiting periods in traffic and restarts it as soon as the driver is ready to move again.
ALSO SEE: All-new Mercedes-Benz Accelo unveils in Nigeria
The Mercedes-Benz Sprinter offers a wide variety of optional extras to suit the needs of the driver. Available options for the interior include leather multifunction steering wheel, eco start/stop function, twin co-driver’s bench seats with table function, roof rails, audio 10 / 15 radio with Becker Map Pilot navigation module and a hinged lid for stowage compartment.
In the area of safety features, Sprinter stands tall above its peers. The futures include Electronic Stability Program, Brake Assist System, Hill start assist, crosswind assist and airbags for the driver and co-driver seats. Others are: options include collision prevention Assist, blind spot keeping assist, reversing camera, lane keeping assist and Bi-xenon headlamps with daytime running headlamps for improved illumination.
According to the MD/CEO of Weststar, Mirko Plath, the Sprinter serves as a major contribution to the development of the Nigerian economy as it caters for mass transit of passengers and cargo while upholding the highest standards of safety and quality.
He said Weststar associates remain dedicated to offering exemplary maintenance deals through its strong aftersales network to keep model running at all times.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment