Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
Prince Ademola Adunola an astute industrialist has join the fray of individuals jostling for the control of the Ijaiye Ojokoro Local Council Development Area (LCDA), churning out a seven point transformation agenda, with which he plans to turn around the council’s administration.
Adunola popularly referred to as ‘Dansaky’, signaled his poise to tackle the myriads of problems confronting the Ojokoro LCDA, which describes as one of the fastest growing business hubs in Lagos state.
The renowned builder, hotelier, freight forwarder and agriculturist boast of bringing to bear his verse experience to seamlessly drive development all round the area.
According to Adunola, he plans to create the Ojokoro Security Emergency Toll free Lines to aid quick response from distress residents in the community.
ALSO SEE: El-Rufai arrests 6 journalists
“I shall bring to bear my huge experience and exposure in private business to improve revenue generation which will ensure successful implementation of these programs.
“I shall partner with corporate organizations, CBO’ and NGO’s to allow them contribute their quota to community governance. I shall also embark on massive vocational training programmes for our Youths and Women at the completion of which each of them would benefit from a revolving loan.
“An annual Leadership Training Programme shall also be put in place to prepare Ojokoro Youths for leadership positions.My government shall in concert with CDA’s and CDC’s have a mechanism for peaceful resolution of conflicts.
Various sporting activities will be facilitated to positively channel the youth’s energy in the right perspective; I shall annually reward excellent performance in major exams by students enrolled in the schools within Ojokoro with scholarship awards. A free School bus ride will also be afforded.
The roads in deplorable shape within the community will be fixed same applies for our health facility, “the roads in Ojokoro are tarred with standard drainages while at the same time rehabilitating existing ones.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment