says 13 people arrested in connection with Isawo killings 

By OKOSUN DENNIS
As efforts are on-going to rout criminal elements hibernating in creeks and shanties across the state especially in Ikorodu, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr Fatai Owoseni disclosed on Tuesday in Lagos that available information revealed that traditional chiefs are informants and sponsors of kidnappers.
While featuring on Channels television breakfast show “Sunrise”, the commissioner said the traditional rulers and indigenes sell their land for the criminals to build tents inside the creeks.
“They interact with some of them when they come out of their hiding places” without letting security agencies know about some of the activities of the criminals.
Owoseni reiterated, “For crime to thrive; there must be elements of collision. The indigenes know where they are living and where they come out from. Ikorodu chiefs are hiding the kidnappers.”
Expatiating on the recent killing of four policemen, an Army Captain and two civilians at Isawo by militants, Owoseni also disclosed that about 13 people have been arrested in connection with the crime stressing that they are been screened to determine their involvement.
He observe that combating the activities of militants and kidnappers have become very difficult at Ikorodu axis because they engage in “hit and run” operation and escape to inaccessible creeks and places outside Lagos state.
He advised the traditional rulers to engage in familiarisation visit to other traditional rulers outside their domain and synergise with them with a view to exposing the criminals living among them.
ALSO SEE: Police demolish criminal hideouts in Ishawo Creeks
“We have destroyed their camps and we would continue to pursue them. The moment they have no place to hide, it will be very difficult for them to operate.”
On ransom paid to kidnappers before a victim is released, CP Owoseni disagrees with those that champions paying ransom to kidnappers as it emboldens them to commit more crimes.
“You don’t glorify and glamorise crime. Ever though some negotiations go on leading the release of victim, the family is left to do that. The police do not get involved at negotiation.”
He warned policemen that are still engaging in searching people’s bags and checking their handsets to desist from doing so as it remains “an illegal and unlawful act.”
“It is illegal and unlawful for policemen to engage in searching people’s bags and phones. We are using the X-Squad and Provost to deal with them. Those caught have been dealt with.
Police have no right to go into people’s privacy to check call log done over past months. It is unlawful and we don’t encourage it,” he added.

			
			Post Views: 
			142