Share this on WhatsApp



 
By Lanre Adesanya
Over one thousand retired soldiers have appealed to President Muhamnadu Buhari to urgently approve the payment of their pensions, saying having served for more than 10 years during the civil war and beyond, they deserve not to die in penury.
The appeal was made during an interview with newsmen by the Chairman of the 63NA Elders Association Volunteer Soldiers, retd. Lance Corporal Ajayi Peters.
Peters with registration No 63NA113886 who spoke on behalf of other soldiers noted that “they are dying because for over 38 years there have been several promises to pay them their entitlement without fulfillment.”
He further explained that they joined the military with sole intention to defend the territorial integrity of Nigeria, adding that it was a total dehumanization and lack of human dignity for them to be languishing in poverty.
“I must confess when we were enlisted there was no enlightenment. Our intention was to defend the nation but unfortunately, the army didn’t give any explanation. There was no special arrangement for majority of us. Many of us were illiterates.
ALSO SEE: Troops get fresh mandate to destroy remnants of Boko Haram in Sambisa Forest
“We were enlisted in 1968 and we retired in 1979. Many of us served for not less than 10 years but while we were leaving they didn’t inform us to complete 15 years service as the rule required then.
“When we were leaving in 1979, the army also promised to pay balance of 14 Pounds of our monthly salaries because they paid 5 Pounds. Up till now the money was not refunded inclidng the allowances for being at the war fronts.
“If they had informed us to serve up to 15 years, we would have complied. Now we can’t fend for ourselves; we have taken several steps to get our benefits but we were told by a Major in charge of our case that it’s only Mr President that can authorize the payments of our pensions,” he said.
In a letter dated 30 June, 2015, Military Pensions Board (MPB) which was made available to journalists, the Board promised the retired soldiers to carry out investigation over nonpayment of their pensions, saying a feedback would be provided within shortest time.
The letter which was titled ‘Re: We are dying, save our souls!’ and signed by General Manager, Public Sector Pensions, G.E. Usoro read in part, “We acknowledge receipt of your letter of 9 May, 2014 on the above subject.
“The Commission wishes to inform you that your complaint has been forwarded to the Military Pensions Board (MPB) for investigation of the issues raised with a view to taking appropriate action to resolve them.
“We would revert to you as soon as possible as we receive a feedback from MPB in this regard,” the letter read.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment