Share this on WhatsApp
What would have been a huge disaster have been thwarted in Abuja as the Department of State Services (DSS) said on Wednesday that a bomb meant to be detonated at the United States and United Kingdom embassies in Abuja  by ISIS-linked Boko Haram have been intercepted.

As a result, National Daily gathered, five suspects who allegedly planned the attack have been arrested.

The DSS spokesperson, Tony Opuiyo, announced that its agency busted the ISIS-linked Boko Haram members purportedly based in Benue state and the Federal Capital Territory.

He explained that the group had perfected plans to attack the two Embassies and other western interests in Abuja.

“During the operation to thwart this plan, five key suspects, namely: Isa Jibril, Jibril Jibril, Abu Omale Jibril, Halidu Sule and Amhodu Salifu, were arrested,” Opuiyo said.

ALSO SEE: EFCC uncovers N15 billion in local, foreign notes at Ikoyi




He also disclosed the arrest of several other terrorists in other parts of the country.

“Earlier, on 22nd March, 2017, at Fika, Yobe State, a 20 year old Boko Haram member, Adamu DATTI was arrested. He confessed his involvement in executing the sinister activities of the group.

“In the month of April, two suspected Ansaru kingpins, Ahmed Momoh and Al-amin Mohammed Jamin were arrested on 4th April, 2017 at Igarra, Akoko Edo LGA, Edo State.

“The duo were confirmed associates of Abu Uwais, a main Ansaru kingpin terrorizing residents in Kogi and Edo States.

“While these terrorists are already undergoing detailed investigations, the Service stepped up its efforts at stamping out the menace of kidnapping.

“In Rivers State, one Daniel Dibiamaka was arrested on 24th March, 2017 at Obio/Akpor LGA, for his complicity in the kidnap of one Emmanuel Orji Ukah on 20th January, 2017 and on that same day, Godsgift Isioma was arrested over his plan to kidnap one Dr. G.N Doug las.”

The DSS spokesperson added that all the arrested terrorists are still been profiled and intensive investigation are ongoing adding that those found culpable will be prosecuted.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment