Share this on WhatsApp




First Bank of Nigeria has said that the bank would continue to revamp its mobile banking application, FirstMobile, to boost convenience and ease of banking.
The bank stated this in a statement in Lagos and made available to the newsmen. It stated that the bank would continue to repackage the application to enhance customers’ digital banking experience.
It added that the bank would leverage on evolving technology to provide cutting-edge banking services to its customers.
“First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Nigeria’s most valuable banking brand, has for over 120 years remained committed to offering value-added services that suit the lifestyle of its customers.”
It added that the bank recently increased the application maximum daily limit to N500,000 without the use of a token and a total daily transaction limit of one million naira.
According to the statement , the banking application, which is secure and easy to use, allows users to carry out banking transactions on the go from their mobile phones anywhere in the world.
ALSO SEE: CBN releases $380m in two days into FX market, naira steady at N390
“FirstMobile comes with a user-defined transaction pin which is an extra security feature and customers can also perform the following actions on the enhanced app: Change Transaction PIN, Reset Transaction PIN, Synchronize token, and change their log in pin – mPIN.
With the integrated lifestyle mobile banking app, customers can enjoy real-time mobile banking services such as domestic funds transfer from self-owned accounts to FirstBank accounts and other banks’ accounts,” it said.
The statement added that customers could make quick airtime purchase for self and others on all mobile networks; numerous bill payments; cheque services, including confirmed cheque and stopped cheque; flight booking and quick account services such as account balance inquiry, statement view.
It said that FirstMobile recorded a milestone in December 2016 in its user numbers with the attainment of one million active users with over N1.3 trillion transaction volume consummated since the application’s launch in 2015.
The statement noted that FirstMobile app was currently available for download on Google Playstore, Blackberry World and Apple store.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment