She may be far away, in the U.S or Canada, yet Stella Damasus still surely feels the heat of Nigerian fans over her supposed role in Doris Simeon’s failed marriage. So it happened that on the birthday of David Ademonikhan, son to Daniel Ademonikhan and Doris Simeone, Stella Damasus decided to make a repost of what her husband, Daniel, shared on his own IG page. It was a birthday message for the son and fans just couldn’t suck it in. They started pouring insults on the ‘hubby-snatcher’. Here are some of the shouts:
@kemiaderonbi voiced, “No wonder you always have something to say about haters. Alas is your current guy Doris Simeon’s former husband? Habaaaaaaaaaa. Also can you convince him to let her see her son . You are a mother. Think of her pain. Jesus!!!Why are people this way?”

@olatitioluwa, “Return the boy to his mum”

@aanumakeover_oreke, “God’s watching U…. No matter how U, present yourself to David as a mother… Later, he will definitely go and meet his mum, U can only snatch @doriskere husband, you can never snatch her son forever….. If your husband den is late, why not marry a divorcee or a widower why that lady’s husband??? I don’t like saying I hate or dislike people but I hate U, I just dislike your ways, I just totally hate you”

ALSO SEE: “Keep your trash to yourself”, fans tell Tonto Dikeh

@kemiaderonbi, “Please build up the campaign @instablog so @doriskere can see her son 7 years That bit I am sure you can do (convince him so she can see her son) @stelladamasus”
@adedigold01, “ you know the pain of losing a husband,@doriskere losses her husband and son to you, I don’t know what really happened between them but u r not supposed to be the one to do this, elopping with her husband, anyway I believe life know how to treat itself and  karma will definitely knock on your door soonest, return David back to his mum, that is the only right thing to do, you are also a mother”

@dab221, “Why post his photo to wish him Happy Birthday but Hide your own Children’s photos? Please bring down his photo Madam Stella and protect him the way you protect your Daughters. Don’t bring this beautiful child into this mess please.. This is another woman’s son, please respect that! THIS IS WRONG!”

It’s been seven years since Stella Damascus married Daniel Ademonikhan. That marriage ended the union between Daniel and Doris.


			
			Post Views: 
			171