The adoption of Nigeria’s domain name, .ng, witnessed an increase in quarter one, with 17, 610 new registrations and renewals made, pushing the usage of the Country’s Code Top Level Domain Name (ccTLD) figure to 84, 931 as at March.
Statistics released by the Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NiRA), the registry for .ng Internet Domain Names in the country, showed that in January, there were 3747 registrations; February had 3711, and March 4547.
The increase witnessed in the adoption may have shown a gradual decline in the patronage of foreign domain names by individuals and businesses in Nigeria, which has been the norm for years and had resulted in increased capital flight from the economy.
Countries around the world strive to promote their respective domain system in order to retain substantial part of the Internet expenditure in-country.
Within the period, there were also renewals, which include 1812, 1443 and 2250 for January, February, and March respectively. In terms of the growth specifications, Nigeria had 79,250 domain names as at January, which rose to 81,486 in February.
Further analysis of the data year-on-year, showed an improvement in this quarter compared to Q1 of 2016, which recorded 11,352 for new registrations and renewals.
The Guardian had earlier in January reported how the country was losing about N900 million yearly to the preference for foreign domain names at the expense of.ng. But in an interview, the President of NiRA, Rev’ Sunday Folayan, gave an assurance of a super growth in Nigeria’s ccTLD in 2017.
ALSO SEE: BlackBerry shares soars over $815m overpaid royalties
NiRA explained that the new data showed the improvement in the number of domain registrations, stressing that of course the economic situation in 2016, was quite different from the economic climate in 2017. Nigerians have re-strategised in their plans for promoting their online business and hence there is improvement in the domain name count.
Folayan had told The Guardian “It is not necessary that the .ng domain is used exclusively in Nigeria, it can be used outside the country.”
Folayan said the .ng has impacted the economy positively because innovative companies are now using the domain name without any ambiguity. “I am always excited when I visit sites like guardian.ng as other industries like hotel.ng, travels.ng, tours.ng for your businesses. When domain names are properly used in Nigeria, it will boost the economy of the country.
Meanwhile, the 2017 .ng Awards hold on April 21st at the Lagos Oriental Hotel. Awards will be given to individuals and organisations contributing to the growth of the .ng domain name space and the promotion of the Domain Name System (DNS) Industry in Nigeria.
The .ng Awards is a yearly event and this year’s edition promises to be more glamourous than the 2016 event. Many individuals and organisations have confirmed attendance.

			
			Post Views: 
			99