Share this on WhatsApp
By OKOSUN DENNIS

The initiative of the Lagos State Government to procure and deploy mobile CCTV camera to assist operatives of the Lagos Rapid Response Squad to fight crime is paying off as it has recorded its first surveillance arrest.

The suspect, Emmanuel Alowonle, an 18-year old Ondo State indigene revealed during interrogation that he came to Lagos about two years ago and had worked as a bus conductor in the area.

He was arrested in Oshodi while the Mobile CCTV was being deployed to monitor the area.

National Daily gathered that Alowonle was arrested after he stole from another commuter’s handbag on the pedestrian walk way.

It was learnt that the mobile CCTV camera was parading oshodi when it sited Emmanuel in the crowd picking from a passerby handbag.

The CCTV camera was jointly managed and put into use by both the RRS operatives and technical assistance by the Lagos State Response Unit, (LRU).

ALSO SEE: NSCDC arrests five for JAMB registration fraud

National Daily also gathered that the emergency management parastatal of the Lagos State Government is handling the technical knowhow of the camera while men of the RRS took charge of the security aspect of the newly deployed security mechanism.

The mobile CCTV camera which is undergoing test running operations patrolled through Ilasa area, mile 2, and Airport road to perfect the use mobile surveillance technology.

Police source further disclosed that the mobile CCTV is geared towards helping security operatives in close monitoring and wider view of Lagos crime prone areas with a view to enhancing prompt detective ability of security men in the state.

It was learnt that Governor Akinwunmi Ambode procured the mobile camera in its effort to combat crime, carry out robust surveillance and help in tracking down criminals and identifying crime scenes in the State.

The overnor who handed the equipment to the Commander RRS said, the present administration was at the verge of fulfilling its promise of a secured Lagos especially its triangular tripod agenda which security and empowerment of security operatives.

The arrest of the suspect was confirmed by the Police Public Relations Officer, Assistant Superintendent of Police, ASP Olarinde Famous Cole. He said that there would be no hiding place for those who come to Lagos to perpetrate crime, adding that the police would fish them out of your hiding.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment