OLX.com.ng, won the award for Online Classifieds Advert Website of the year for the second time in a row at the 8th edition of Beacon of Information & Communications Technology Awards (BoICT) which was held on Saturday, April 22, 2017 in Lagos.
While receiving the award on behalf of the company, Mayokun Fadeyibi, business development manager, OLX, thanked the organizers- Nigeria CommunicationsWeek.
“It’s really exciting for us to receive this award two years in a row and we are truly honoured to have emerged winners in this category.  I want to especially thank all OLX users for their patronage, loyalty and dedicate this award to them. I would also like to thank the OLX team, as this recognition is a result of their hardwork and commitment to the business. ”
Fadeyibi, also added that OLX is constantly re-inventing the wheel to better serve OLX users.   “Last year, OLX revised the online classifieds model by launching a premium service named Do-It-For-Me (D.I.F.M). D.I.F.M helps busy executives sell their items quickly, safely and conveniently when they book an OLX Champ.  The OLX Champ is a sales expert who posts the ads, takes calls from buyers, negotiates for the right price and closes the deal”.
ALSO SEE: LinkedIn membership reaches half a billion
The Beacon of ICT Awards is an annual ICT event recognizing organizations’ or individuals’ contributions to ICT development in Nigeria. The theme for this year’s award ceremony was “Empowering Youth Through Digital Citizenship”.
The ceremony had in attendance major players in the ecommerce industry across various sectors of the economy, who gathered to celebrate outstanding achievement in various categories.
OLX is the world’s leading classifieds platform in growth markets and is available in more than 45 countries and over 50 languages.
OLX connects local people to buy, sell or exchange used goods and services by making it fast and easy for anyone to post an ad through the mobile app.
Every month, over 300 million people in local markets around the world use OLX’s online marketplace to find and sell a wide range of products, including vehicles, electronics, phones and much more.
User Operations Manager, OLX Patrica Duru; Business Development Manager, OLX; Mayokun Fadeyibi; (far right) Marketing Manager, OLX Fife Aiyesimoju being presented the BOICT award for the Best Online Classifieds Advert Website of the year bySunday Dare Commissioner, stakeholders management, Nigerian Communications Commission in Lagos over the weekend.

			
			Post Views: 
			387