Share this on WhatsApp



Weststar Associates, authorized general distributors of Mercedes-Benz commercial and passenger vehicles in Nigeria has unveiled a new truck for the construction, haulage and distribution industries.
The all-new 915c Accelo is the first Mercedes-Benz compact truck that offers high value for money, great maneuverability and suitable comfort for any transport challenge.
It provides high load capacity via its rear axle as it boasts a payload of over 5 tonnes. With a Gross Vehicle Weight of 9 tons, the very adaptable Accelo allows fitting of superstructures (of up to 6.5 meters long) such as tank for liquids/gases, tipper, dry cargo, waste compactor, cesspit emptier, standard aluminum truck, box body and even bodies for the distribution of beverages.
The Mercedes-Benz Accelo is equipped with a 150HP four-cylinder Euro 3 engine equipped with a 5-speed manual transmission.  For a safer driving experience, the Accelo is equipped with a pneumatic, dual circuit disc brake system to guarantee accurate responses while in everyday urban traffic. The all-new Accelo comes with a load-sensing valve and anti-Lock brakes to enhance safety by preventing unwanted locking of rear wheels.
ALSO SEE: Mercedes-Benz writes new chapter in driving comfort – Weststar Associates
Its passenger car-like dashboard gives the driver full overview of the most vital driving information on the instrument cluster. Other key features include ergonomic seats for two passengers and a driver, air conditioning, power windows, power steering and a central seat with a 3-point seatbelt. These features help ensure a high level of occupant safety, excellent visibility, driver productivity and alertness.
“Its ruggedness, driver comfort, payload and easy body mounting are unique features that set it apart from other commercial vehicles, thus making it a perfect cost-effective tool for demanding fleets in the Nigerian private and public sectors.  In addition to being backed up by our well-established maintenance and parts network, there is no doubt that the Mercedes-Benz Accelo will contribute to the fast growth of the Nigerian economy.” – Mirko Plath MD/CEO, Weststar Associates Limited
All inquiries on the Mercedes-Benz Accelo should be forwarded to our office at Gottlieb Daimler road, 3rd roundabout (Ikate), Lekki, Lekki-Epe Expressway, Lagos on 0809 999 8375 / 0809 999 8376 or mailed to: u.ekanem@weststar.com.ng
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment