Share this on WhatsApp
By ANDREW OJIEZEL

As part of his efforts to tame kidnapping in the state, the Lagos State Government on Friday threatened to dethrone any traditional ruler found harbouring and aiding kidnappers in the state.

The state’s Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Alhaji Muslim Folami, gave the warning at the ongoing ministerial briefing in commemoration of Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode’s second year in office.

“Intelligence reveals that some of these Baales, particularly from Ikorodu and Ishawo collaborate with the miscreants to kidnap innocent souls.

According Folami, “Yesterday, I told them to their faces this might lead to dethroning and we will do just that if investigations reveal that you are part of the criminality,” Folami said.

He said that the State Government had acquired five hectares of land for the permanent settlement of the security operatives in Igbodu community in Epe to check the incessant attack by kidnappers.

“The land has been cleared and ready for development.”

ALSO SEE: Lagos LG election: Ojora vows to restore glory of Lagos Island as Chairman

He urged residents to partner with the government in fighting kidnapping and also advised them to be more vigilant.

Folami said that the establishment of a virile and vibrant system of community associations had over the years enabled the government to partner with communities, sensitise them on its priorities and receive feedback on public policies.

He said that the total number of Community Development Associations (CDAs) across the state as at March was 3,400, up from 3,292 recorded last year.

Folami said that many of the CDAs held monthly meetings to address matters of security, conflict resolution and also tasked themselves to ensure protection of lives and property.

” Community development is one of the primary goals of this administration, it is an established fact that development cannot take place without peace and harmony.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment