Share this on WhatsApp

Thirty-five-year-old Fatai Badmus on Tuesday approached an Ado-Ekiti Customary Court seeking for the dissolution of his marriage to his wife, Alhaja Mariam Badmus, over allegations of adultery.

The complainant told the court that whenever she leaves the house for the restaurant where she works as a caterer, she comes back home late.

“She has been giving flimsy excuses that her boss was the one delaying her because of so many customers they have to attend to at the restaurant.

Explaining further, the petitioner alluded that on a particular night, he caught the wife with a motorcyclist behind a trailer along the street.

‎The father of two told the court that his wife had told him she was going out to buy recharge card, and unknown to her, he traced her to the point where her secret lover was waiting for her.




Fatai pointed that the wife does not respect him and even receives phone calls from men while on the bed with him.

Apart from that, he also accused the wife of deliberately denying him sex for over six months.

“I often cook food for my children when my wife is not at home; she was fond of abandoning her matrimonial home and travel with men.

“On Valentine’s Day, my wife left the house around 8am and came back 11pm and sometimes she ‎will not even bother about the health of her children.


ALSO SEE: How Abati’s pen ‘touched’ Tboss’ boobs 


“I can no longer tolerate all her indecent behaviours and I do not love her anymore because she was fond of wearing provocative clothes to attract men.

“I have two witnesses which are my parents ‎that can testify to my claims before this honourable court,” he said.

Fatai, therefore, prayed the court to dissolve the marriage and allow him to take over the custody of their two children.

When one of the witnesses of the petitioner, Alhaji Rahmo Badmus, 68, was called to testify to the claims,he confirmed the petitioner’s position that the woman was always abandoning her children and coming late to the house.

They told the court that she was also fond of wearing provocative clothes which was contrary to the doctrine of Islam.

The respondent, Mrs Sade Badmus, however, refuted the entire allegation levelled against her by the petitioner.

She denied that she wasn’t having secret affairs with men or coming home late claiming they were all frame up to divorce her.

The President of the Court, Mrs Olayinka Akomolede after hearing from both parties, adjourned the case till May 18, for further hearing.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment