Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State and Femi Fani-Kayode, both members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), this on Tuesday, found their ways through the security network of the Department of Security Services (DSS) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) at the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, to show solidarity with the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu.

National Daily gathered that the DSS had cordoned off access to the court to forestall breakdown of law and order as the presiding judge delivered judgment on the bail application by Kanu’s counsel. The security personnel were at alert to prevent persons not parties to the suit from entering the court.

Thus, the DSS, on sighting Governor Fayose, were gathered to have attempted to temporarily deny the governor access into the court room where the judge was getting set to deliver ruling on the application to release Kanu on bail while his trial continues.

Moreover, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) were also said to have tried to deny Femi Fani-Kayode, a former Minister of Aviation, entry into the court on arrival for the suit against in an adjoining court where he is facing charges of corruption.

The actions of the DSS and EFCC were gathered to have generated relative pandemonium which attracted the attention of the lawyers in court.

ALSO SEE: IPOB Leader Nnamdi Kanu granted bail

The lawyers were said to have persuaded the security operatives to allow the governor and the former Aviation Minister access to the courtroom. Fani-Kayode, however, later joined Fayose to show solidarity with the IPOB leader, Kanu.

The episode, National Daily gathered, reinforced the supporters of Nnamdi Kanu and the pro-Biafra activists who sang the Biafran anthem to the top of their voice which they displayed different Biafra insignia and flags.

They chanted from a distance, as they were also barred from standing within perimeters of the court premises by gun wielding security men.

Kanu has been facing trial alongside three other pro-Biafra agitators, Chidiebere Onwudiwe, Benjamin Madubugwu and David Nwawuisi.

The trial Justice Nyako ruled this Tuesday on applications by the defendants seeking to be admitted to bail pending determination of the five-count criminal charge the Federal Government slammed against them.

The judge in her judgment granted Kanu bail but on condition that provides a reputable Jewish leader to stand a surety.
 

			
			PV: 
			0