A prosecution witness of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), on Thursday gave detailed accounts of how funds of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, NAMA, were allegedly diverted by some of its top officials.
The witness, Ade Babatunde, a staff of Stanbic IBTC bank, gave the evidence at the resumed trial of a former NAMA Managing Director, Ibrahim Abdulsalam, charged with diversion of N6.8 billion.
Mr. Abdulsalam is charged alongside other accused, including a former General Manager of Procurement, Olumuyiwa Adegorite, and a former General Manager of Finance, Segun Agbolade.
Others are a former acting General Manager of ICT, Bolaniran Akinribido, Sesebor Abiodun and Joy Adegorite.
Also charged are two limited liability companies, Randville Investment Ltd, and Multeng Travels and Tours Ltd.
When the case was called on Thursday, the prosecutor, Rotimi Oyedepo, resumed his examination of the first witness for the prosecution (PW1).
Mr. Oyedepo prayed the court for exhibit ‘A’ to be handed over to the witness for purposes of his evidence in chief, and asked the witness to tell the court about the transaction highlighted as exhibit 002.
In response, the witness told the court that the said exhibit was in relation to the account statement of Segun Agbolade (third accused) with account number 9201060421.
He told the court that between January 2 and January 3, 2013, there were transactions with narration 002, for the transfer of N13.1 million from the account of Akinribido (fourth accused) to Agbolade (third accused).
He said that the transfer came in tranches of N3.1 million on January 2, 2013, and in two tranches of N5 million each, on January 3, 2013. According to the witness, the balance on Mr. Agbolade’s account as at January 3, 2013, stood at N27.8 million.
According to him, the two signatories to the account of Multeng Travels and Tours are: Olumuyiwa Adegorite (second accused) and Joy Adegorite (fifth accused).
He further told the court that on March 22, 2013, there were seven different transactions but specifically the sixth transaction revealed a monetary transfer of N3.5 million from the account of ex-NAMA MD (Abdulsalam) to Agbolade.
He added that on June 17, 2013, there were two debit transactions in the sum of N6 million transferred in two tranches of N3 million each, to the account of Multeng Travels and Tours.
He added that between January 30 and February 5, 2015, there was also a transfer of a cumulative sum of over N15.5 million to Gidan bureau de change, Antopie Construction Company and Susan Agbolade.
After listening to the testimony of the witness, Justice Babs Kuewumi adjourned the case to March 13 for continuation of trial.

			
			PV: 
			0