Warns FG on secret trial of Kanu

From DAVID UKA, AbakalikiTHE All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the United States of America (USA), has condemned the killing of some members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) by security agents during the separatists’ rally in support of the inauguration of the new President of America, Donald Trump on 20th of January in Port Harcourt, River state.

Recall that IPOB had alleged that more than 11 of their unarmed members were killed by security agents and many sustained bullet wounds but Nigeria Police said no member of the group was killed as its men employed minimum force to disperse them.

Mr. Ibiam Okwukwe, APGA Secretary in the USA, in a statement from the Unites States, described the killing of IPOB members by security agents as unfortunate and barbaric.

He regretted that Nigeria at 56 was not yet living up to the expectations of being the abode for all to meaningfully pursue their life’s aspiration, insisting that killing of people with divergent viewpoints had not and would never address the issue.

“The reason for their divergent view is that the status quo has not worked for them. It did not work for the previous generation before them, either. How do you expect them to have faith? Democracy demands that the government should listen. Democracy is plurality. Suppression of opinions anywhere in the world has never worked. Those opinions only pop up in other areas where the government may not like their soiled linens displayed,” Okwukwe contended.

Okwukwe noted that Igbo issues are not going away anytime soon and that the Federal Government must find a way to embrace and incorporate the obvious into the mainstream by peacefully taking a firm study of Multi-ethnic nations rather than its clamping down tactics that would never work.

The APGA Scribe further condemned the secret trial of the IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, and warned FG to address the issues Kanu has come to personify, saying, “it is evident that he is not operating from a vacuum.”

He said that given the current situations in the country, the All Progressives Congress (APC) can only be looking at a one-term Presidency, as no sane Nigerian can vote the ruling party again adding, “Nobody should send a clueless APC administration back to Abuja.  The country is clearly worse off than it was one and half years ago. The APC brain trust has no panacea for Nigerian ills.”

He advised APGA not to consider going into alliance in 2019 because the party’s ideology cannot be translated by others seeking alliance with the party, arguing that a Presidential candidate would help the party expound on the benefits of A laissez-faire Nigerian economy to the average Nigerian, and the benefits of allowing Nigerians the comparative advantage they have in different domains.

Okwukwe, who congratulated the new leadership of Ohaneze led by John Nnia Nwodo , advised the new president of the highest Igbo social-cultural organisation that Ohaneze’s presence, advocacy and policy making roles were no longer enough but should ensure that whatever it spearheads becomes part of Nigerian administrative landscape so that it could be seen, heralded and practiced. He said, “it is not enough to have presence, advocate and make policy. It is important that whatever he spearheads for the Igbo becomes part of the Nigerian administrative landscape – Be seen, heralded and practiced.”

			
			Post Views: 
			132