Share this on WhatsApp
From OSEMWENGIE BEN OGBEMUDIA, Benin City

Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has commended the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) for their role in the protection of pipeline vandalism.

Governor Obaseki who assured NSCDC of his administration’s support in the discharge of their duties in the state said, “I am proud of your activities‎”.

‎Obaseki gave this assurance when he received a delegation of senior officers from zone G, led by its Zonal Commander, Assistant Commander, Bassey O. Bassey, at Government House, Benin City.

The governor informed the team that the Corps would be incorporated in the state’s design for local policing for effective security network at the grass root level.

He said that the idea was borne out of the fact that some of the state assets were located in those areas and needed adequate security.

He said that the state would support the Corps and would assist in getting a better accommodation for its state and Zonal offices.

“We are trying to manage the affairs of the state considering the recession and the little allocation we get from the Federal Government.

“The Federal government is supposed to provide the necessary platform for you to work while with. We will try to support you to the best of our capacity” the governor assured.

The new Zonal Commander of NSCDC, Zone G, Bassey Bassey, commended the governor for integrating the Corps into the security structure of the state.

Bassey, while assuring the governor of the Corps cooperation, appealed for security vehicles and office accommodation for both its state and zonal offices.

In another development, the governor commended the the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, in Benin for fair reportage.

The governor gave this commended when the Zonal Manager of FRCN and other top management staff paid a courtesy visit to Government House.

The governor said that the medium had been able to maintain a high level of professionalism despite fallen standards in the sector.

He also commended FRCN for giving him good coverage and for being nonpartisan during the 2016 Edo Governorship polls.

He said that his administration had commenced reforms in the agricultural and social sectors adding that the coverage of the medium would be worthwhile.

In her remarks, the Zonal Manager of FRCN, Benin, Mrs Bimbo Oyetunde, commended the governor on his victory at the 2016 Edo governorship election.

She said that the medium was committed to giving the public fair reports and abreast them with government policies and programmes.

She said that the medium was willing to inform citizens of Edo on the laudable projects being executed by the Obaseki led administration.
Share this on WhatsApp