Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
The Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) lawmakers at the Lagos State House of Assembly have lauded the emergence of Gov. Ayodele Fayose as the Chairman, PDP Governors Forum,describing it as a welcome development, capable of making the party formidable again.
The lawmakers in separate interviews analyse the positive aura the Fayose’s experience can elicit in uniting the party and engendering a vibrant opposition to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
According to them, there is still hope for the party if all warring factions are reconsolidated early enough before it appears too late for the party.
Commenting Hon. Olusola Sokunle, Chairman, House Committee on Special Duties and Inter government Relations said, ” it is a good omen for the party, we need to congratulate Fayose.
“Now that Fayose is the Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum, what should be the priority is to find a way of settling all rancors in the party.
“They should not create more other than to resolve all crisis within the party. By so doing, we will be able to have rest of mind in the party.
“As it is today, let me be frank with you, nobody is happy with what is happening in PDP being the ruling party for 16 years and all of a sudden everything is in disarray.
“Let’s be realistic, if Fayose wants to perform well, he should find a way of settling the crisis in the party.”
He added that the party would not get itself right until people in the party get themselves right by sheathing their swords and coming together.
Another lawmaker, Hon.Jude Idimogu representing Oshodi/Isolo II at the Assembly,in his contribution noted that the choice of Fayose was a wise development, as  the governor in question had all it take to lead the party out of the current stormy gale.
Idimogu noted that, “Fayose is the oldest among the governor and this makes him most experienced. He is not only bold and courageous but also on the side of the poor masses.
“He is an outspoken and committed leader of the party. Fayose deserves it. We need people like him that are outspoken.
“Meanwhile, the urgent task ahead of him is to see how all stakeholders in the party can come together as a united family.
“Fayose should ensure that concerted effort is geared towards reconciling all factions especially at the top. This is a big issue, it is key.”
The lawmaker said that all indications on ground did not guarantee that the PDP would return to Aso Rock in 2019 if urgent attention was not paid to re-unification.
According to him, Fayose should bear in mind that ruling human beings remains the most difficult task ever.
Idimogu urged PDP members at the National Assembly and all stakeholders in the former ruling party to support Fayose to move the party forward.
It will be recalled that Fayose, the Ekiti State Governor, was elected on Thursday by PDP Governors Forum as its chairman.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment