Share this on WhatsApp



Minister of Communications, Barrister Adebayo Shittu has charged the newly inaugurated nine-man Board for the Nigerian Communication Commission to formulate policies for the regulation and development of the communications industry.
Barrister Shittu gave the charge during the board’s inauguration yesterday in Abuja, stressing that that the many years of telecoms revolution in Nigeria have been quite rewarding. He added that more still needed to be done by stakeholders in order to fully transform Nigeria into a truly digital and knowledge-based economy.
According to him, a National ICT Roadmap has been put in place with a commitment to refocus the Telecoms sector as an enabler for sustainable development. This he said, will enable the country optimise opportunities for wealth and job creation as well as increase revenue generation for government.
The Minister told the board members led by Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye that during this national assignment, you should selflessly contribute your rich experiences to shape the development of the industry.
Riding on the crest of the NCC Act 2003, the Minister listed some of the board’s responsibilities to include but not limited to: Considering and approving the yearly budget of the Commission and as may be presented to the Board by Management; Ensuring that the Commission is manifestly seen to be a responsible corporate citizen, having regard not only to financial aspects of the Commission but also to the impact its operations have on its stakeholders, the environment and all  parts of the country; Provision of the effective leadership on an ethical foundation by ensuring that issues of ethics are managed effectively; among others
Responding on behalf of the board, Durojaiye thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for giving them the opportunity to serve. “We want to assure the President and members of the public that by the grace of God we will not disappoint the nation”.
Durojaiye added that the board members will try their best to ensure a level playing ground for operators in the industry and ensure they play the game according to the rules.
Apart from Durojaiye, the other members of the board include Prof. Umar Danbatta, the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive, Engr. Ubale Maska, Executive Commissioner (Technical Services), Mr. Sunday Dare (Executive Commissioner, Stakeholder Management). The non-executive Commissioners include Mr. Clement Omeiza Baiye and Senator Ifeanyi Ararume.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment