Share this on WhatsApp
The Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Chief Wole Olanipekun, and foremost Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Aare Afe Babalola, are among dignitaries expected to chart a way forward for the justice sector at a two-day Summit on Administration of Justice put together by the Lagos State Government.

The Summit, organised by the State’s Ministry of Justice, with the theme: “Contemporary Trends: Catalysts for Justice Sector Reform in Lagos State,” will take place between January 30 and 31, 2017 at Eko Convention Centre, Eko Hotels & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, and participants are billed to discuss and proffer solutions to improvement of the sector.

Other legal luminaries expected to grace the Summit are human rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN); former Lagos State Attorney General and Deputy Chief of Staff to the President, Mr. Ade Ipaye; Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji of the International Criminal Court; and former Executive Secretary of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF), Mr. Fola Arthur- Worrey.

Osinbajo, according to a statement issued on Monday by the Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Adeniji Kazeem, is the Keynote Speaker at the Summit, while Governor Akinwunmi Ambode would serve as the Special Guest of Honour.

Kazeem, who is the Chief Host, said that the Summit was designed to create a platform for exchange of knowledge and ideas and is expected to feature about 25 high level speakers drawn from within and outside the country.

He said the sessions prepared for the Summit will consist of Plenary, Panelist discussions, a host of interactive deep sessions as well as robust discussions addressing the most topical issues in Justice Administration.

He added that topics will range from Criminal Administration, to appraisal of Civil Procedure, Ethics and Efficient Court Administration.

Speaking further on the rationale behind the Summit, Kazeem said: “There is the need to continue to update our laws and policies in order to create an enabling environment for investors and tourist, and the best way to do this is through contributions and participation of stakeholders.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment