Share this on WhatsApp
 By Lanre Adesanya
Two executive bills for the creation of the Lagos State Sport Commission and Lagos State Sport Trust Fund scaled the legislative hurdle yesterday, as the Lagos State Assembly gives its nod by passing it into law.
The law when assent by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is meant to drive growth and developing of sports in the state.
The House passed into law, a Bill for a Law to Provide for Establishment of Lagos State Sports Commission and for Connected Purposes and a Bill for a Law for Establishment of Lagos State Trust Fund and for Connected Purposes.
The eventual passage of the bills was expedited following the House adoption of the recommendations of its House Committee on Sports led by Hon. Adedamola Kasunmu as its resolutions.
The two bills, thereafter were read for the third time and passed after the Speaker of the House, Mr Mudashiru Obasa conducted voice votes on each section of the bill.
Obasa directed the Acting Clerk of the House to forward clean copies of each bill to Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode for assent.
Hon. Kasumu in a chat with newsmen after the passage said that the two bills would help to take sports to greater heights in the state.
According to him, the board of the commission will consist of reputable individuals who will equally see to the development of sports in the state. The commission will play the role of the no longer existing nomenclature-Ministry of sport. It will enhance participation and trainings in sports.
“The bills seek to promote young talents in sports to grow. Sports Trust Fund is saddled with the responsibility for looking for donations and grants to encourage sporting activities in the state.
“Lagos has been doing well in sports; the bills will make the state giant in sports, not only in Nigeria but also in Africa. We will stop at nothing to make sure we take sports to greater heights, “he said.
According to him, with the two bills, sports will be taken to the people at the grassroots, adding that the bill will encourage the Ministry of Education to develop school sports further.
He said that while the sports commission would help to ensure proper management of sporting activities through regulation of policies in sports, the Sports Trust Fund would help to generate fund to develop sports.
The chairman said that with the Trust Fund, the labour of sports’ heroes would not be forgotten as it would help to recognize and reward those who had contributed to sports development.
He stressed that it would help to identify and sponsor young and upcoming sports talents for development to attain the height of their career.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment