Rivers State is not at war, no need for helicopter – Wike  

Transport Minister and the immediate past Governor of Rivers State Rt. Hon Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi spoke yesterday on the two helicopters the Nigerian Customs Service turned over to the Air Force at the weekend.
He accused former President Goodluck Jonathan and Governor Nyesom Wike of blocking the government of Rivers State from taking possession of the controversial helicopters.
But in a swift reaction Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, in a statement last night, said Amaechi resorted to the purchase of helicopters because he could not provide good governance.
In a statement by his media office, Amaechi said when he took over as Governor of Rivers State, criminals masquerading as militants, kidnappers and other elements were on the prowl in Rivers State.
Among measures to combat the menace was the purchase of the helicopters.
Based on recommendation of security experts, he said his administration bought the two Bell 412 security surveillance helicopters in collaboration with the Federal Government through the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA).
“To show their support, the Federal government through the office of the NSA contributed $15million, about half of the total sum, towards the purchase of the helicopters.
“Also, the then former President Goodluck Jonathan administration granted waivers to the Rivers State government to purchase and import the helicopters,” Amaechi said.
The minister said trouble started many months later when the Jonathan administration allegedly frustrated attempts to take possession of the helicopters.
Amaechi said: “It was obvious why the President Goodluck Jonathan administration acted the way it did and Nyesom Wike, the present Governor of Rivers State was an integral part, a major player in the whole conspiracy to block and prevent Rivers State government from taking possession of the helicopters.
“Then, as a minister in President Jonathan’s cabinet, Wike inundated President Jonathan with fake stories of how then Governor Amaechi wanted to use the helicopters for Presidential campaigns against Jonathan, how Amaechi will use the helicopters to support President Jonathan’s opponents before and during the presidential elections and all sorts of concocted tales that created a false impression that the Amaechi government in Rivers State would use the helicopters against and to fight President Jonathan, and not to secure lives and property.
“Wike then, was already nursing the ambition to run for the office of Governor of Rivers State. He didn’t care about the security of lives and property.
“The helicopters were procured by the Amaechi administration to curb the wanton menace of criminals in the State (which has since worsened under Wike’s watch), but in his usual habit, Governor Wike has decided to abandon and dump the helicopters, because he does not care about the safety and security of lives and property in the State. Sad, very sad.”
Wike, in a statement by his media aide, Simeon Nwakaudu, said: “The immediate past Rivers State Governor, Rotimi Amaechi, could not provide  the  people of  Rivers State with good governance  that was why he had to recourse to the purchase of Armoured Helicopters.
“Rivers State Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has no need for Armoured  helicopters because  he has provided the good people of Rivers State with good governance  and they are happy with him.
“In any case, Rivers State is not at war with any country, hence  there is no need for armoured  helicopters.
“Governor Wike will continue to  deliver good governance to the  Rivers people. This has led to the improvement of security, despite  the  evil political  machinations  of Amaechi and his cohorts.”

			
			Post Views: 
			129