Share this on WhatsApp



Weststar Associates Limited, sole distributor of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria has promised Mercedes-Benz enthusiasts in the country an exciting firework of new products in 2017.
Speaking recently on the achievements of Mercedes-Benz in 2016, attaining the number one position in the premium segment at a double-digit rate in 2016 by selling more than two million vehicles worldwide, Mirk Plath, MD/CEO of Weststar said the brand has set a new global standard.
“We have an interesting number of product launches in Nigeria this year. First is the E-class with special features as a major step towards autonomous driving, the GLC – a much more refined successor of the GLK and a new minivan. The minivan will serve as a wonderful solution for city logistics and public transport. We are also expecting the arrival of the first-ever premium pickup – the Mercedes-Benz X-class. Finally, we intend to launch some new truck models to support Nigeria’s construction and logistic sector. All in all, the Mercedes-Benz family in Nigeria promises an exciting firework of new products in 2017”
Mercedes-Benz for the first time surpassed its German competitors by selling the most premium cars worldwide. It was also the bestselling premium brand in Germany, Italy, Portugal, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Taiwan, the USA and Canada for the full year 2016.
According to Dr. Dieter Zetsche, Chairman of the Board of Management of Daimler AG and Head of Mercedes-Benz Cars, 2016 was the most successful year for Mercedes-Benz in the history of the company, and the sixth record year in succession.
“With new cars with pioneering design that inspire our customers and with particularly strong growth, above all in China and Europe, we have climbed to the top of the premium segment. And we are accelerating further – with new technologies, products and services.”
The C-class remains the bestselling model with a sale of estates and saloons of approximately 425,000 in 2016 alone. Since 1982, over nine million models of the C-Class have been sold worldwide with the largest individual market being China and new best-ever unit sales in Japan (+3.5%), South Korea (+25%), Australia (+14.8%), Taiwan (+17.4%) and Malaysia (+8.6%).
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment