Fifa today( Tuesday, 10,2016) unanimously voted to expand the World Cup to 48 teams from 2026.
 
The idea is the brainchild of recently-elected Fifa president Gianni Infantino and will feature 16 groups of three teams. All drawn group stage matches could be decided on penalties.
 
Infantino’s revamped format was supported by all 37 members of the Fifa Council at a meeting in Zurich this morning and it is projected to generate £800million in additional revenue for the organisation through broadcasting, commercial and match-day income.
 
There had been opposition to another proposal which included an initial play-off round for the additional teams but the final decision reflects a desire to ensure all 211 Fifa members will have a better chance of both qualifying and a prolonged stay at the finals.
 
There will be a total of 80 matches — rising from 64 — but the winners will still need to navigate seven games to lift the trophy and the tournament will be completed within 32 days to ensure there is no greater impact on the domestic football calendar.

It is the first time the World Cup has been expanded since 1998 when the number of teams increased from 24 to 32, comprising eight groups of four.

The bid process to host the 2026 tournament will not be completed until 2020, with the United States the early frontrunner. Before then, Infantino faces a re-election vote in 2019 and his chances appear strong after giving greater World Cup finals opportunities to smaller nations, all of whom have the same single vote as football’s  powerhouse countries.
 
The FA backed the move — although they were thought to be seeking assurances Europe would be guaranteed additional places.
 
Chairman Greg Clarke said yesterday: “Gianni was elected on the basis of he wanted to expand the World Cup so that is popular around the world.
 
“I couldn’t see the point of going out there and saying ‘over my dead body’ when it’s probably going to happen. Would it be good for England? Probably not. Would it be good for growing the game around the world? It might be.
 
“Big countries, France, Germany and England are worried about what this means for the flagship global tournament. But small countries from Asia, Latin America or Africa are quite excited about having a chance to qualify.”
 
HERE ARE NOTABLE WORLD CUP CHANGES OVER THE YEARS:
 
URUGUAY 1930 | 13 Teams
One group of four and three groups of three, with only top team progressing to semi-finals
 
ITALY 1934 | 16 Teams
Knockout tournament
 
BRAZIL 1950 | 13 Teams
Three groups of four and one group of three, with top side progressing to final group of four
 
SWITZERLAND 1954 | 16 Teams
Four groups of four, but only two games in each group, with top two sides through to quarter-finals
 
SWEDEN 1958 | 16 Teams
Four groups of four, this time with three games. Top two sides through to quarter-finals
 
WEST GERMANY 1974 | 16 Teams
Four groups of four but now followed with two groups of four, the two top sides competing the final
 
SPAIN 1982 | 24 Teams
Six groups of four followed by four groups of three, the winner of each qualifying for the semi-finals
 
MEXICO 1986 | 24 Teams
Six groups of four, top two sides and four best third-placed teams qualifying for round of 16
 
FRANCE 1998 | 24 Teams

Eight groups of four, top two sides progressing to knockout rounds

			
			PV: 
			0