steals 47 car brain box in 2months

A former prisoner, who regained freedom about six weeks ago from Kirikiri prison, has been arrested by operatives of Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of the Lagos State Police Command for vandalising Toyota cars in Victoria Island, Lagos.
National Daily learnt that the suspect, a 33-year-old Olawasegun Oladimeji, has confessed that a spare part dealer in Ladipo International Market was the brain behind the illegal business as he usually gave him the specifications of cars to vandalise.
The suspect, a barber by profession, was said to have been apprehended at Lekki last week by the RRS officials.
National Daily gathered that on arrest, he was found to be in possession of several body parts of Toyota Corolla and mobile phones, which he had stolen from the garage guards, who were sleeping when he broke in.
Oladimeji confessed that he was released from prison in November, 2016 after he was convicted for three months for removing Toyota body parts in another garage in Apapa, in July, 2016.
According to him, “Oga Dona (auto parts dealer) has my number. He would call to give me the type of vehicle body parts that are on high demand in the market. He would tell me to get them for him.
“I have been working for him for about eight years. I steal different vehicle body parts, particularly, Toyota products. I remove Toyota Corolla brain box, headlight, rear light, buttons.
“Since I came back from prison in November, 2016, I have stolen brain-boxes of 47 cars. My targets are Toyota products”.
Olademije further stated that, “Whenever I am going on operation, he is the one that gives me transport money. Most times, he tells me the specifications of the car he wants me to operate on.
I live in Marwa, Victoria Island. I had surveyed the company earlier in the day. And I knew those cars belonged to that company. At about 4:00 a.m after operation, I had removed all I need to remove. The security sighted me and raised alarm. Thus chased me.
Unfortunately for me, RRS officers were patroling. They sighted me, pursued me with their vehicle and arrested me.
Oladimeji added; “I gained by breaking one of the small side glasses at the back seat. After I might have gotten all those parts, I would call Oga Dona who would tell me where to meet any of his boys for the collection of the parts.
Those arrested with the suspects include Chidozie Onyema (32) and Ananyor Chukwu (33) who Oga Dona usually send to me to collect those things on his behalf.
“At times, I take it to them in Boundary in Ajegunle and most times in Toyota Bus Stop, Oshodi. I sell Toyota Corolla brain box for N30,000; N25,000 or N20,000. The least of the parts is N2,000”.
In his confessional statement, one of the Oga Diona’s boy, Ananyor  said, “Our boss, Oga Dona, usually gives me between N30, 000 to N35, 000 to give Segun and collect the goods in his hand.
He asked me to wait for him at Toyota bus stop or any other place to collect the stolen car parts from Segun.
At times, he gives me N1, 000 or N500 after the deal. Occasionally, he tells me nothing ‘dey on top’. Segun has been supplying  stolen spare parts to him for up to eight years. We are just hustlers”.
Confirming the incident, the State’s Police Public Relations Officer, Superintendent of Police, Dolapo Badmus, said that the Command will not rest on its oars in nipping in the bud criminal activities in the state.
The suspects have been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Yaba





Attachments area









			
			PV: 
			0