Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
Benin Electricity Distribution Plc (BEDC), has assured its numerous customers that it will continue to improve on services to them.
Chairman of the board of directors, BEDC, Victor Gbolade Osibodu gave the assurance recently while addressing at the Annual General Meeting held at the company’s head office in Benin, Edo State.
The chairman commended management and staff of BEDC for their tireless effort in turning around the company in spite of the initial take off and transitional challenges, noting that the result of all this is manifested in the improvements in the operational performance over the last three years.
He added that most noteworthy also was the fact that the performance of the team resulted in various awards on safety and cash management.
Mr Osibodu also lauded the inputs of the Technical /Commercial and the Finance/Risk/Audit Board committees in ensuring effective guidance and policy direction of the management process.
BEDC is one out of the 11 successor distribution companies (Discos) created following the unbundling and privatization of state-owned Power Holding Company of Nigeria Plc. (PHCN).  It is the joint venture between Vigeo Power Limited and the Government of Nigeria represented by the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) and the Ministry of Finance Inc.
Since inception, BEDC had resolved over 60,000 complaints through the customer complaints unit, using  centralized Call Centre and complaints tracking software; and has also resolved the backlog of metering requests at takeover, having installed over 120,500 meters.
On network improvement, and upgrade, the company has added new injection substations to provide relief to overloaded network and provided various distribution transformers; constructed dedicated distribution lines for commercial and industrial customers, including replacement of failed power transformers.
In addition, customers can now make payments for their electricity consumption in any bank location across the country as well as through selected ATMs, online internet payment platforms and through selected ATMs and Agents using Point of Sale (POS) terminals.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment