Share this on WhatsApp



 
Sterling Bank’s strategic partnership with the Ministry of Health in providing affordable health services has been commended by President Muhammadu Buhari.
President Buhari gave the commendation in Abuja while inaugurating the Model Primary Health Care Centre for Universal Coverage in Nigeria, located at Kuchigoro, Abuja Municipal Council.
The President said such partnership would serve as an enabler for the Health Ministry to achieve its goal of revamping the Health sector and ensuring efficient management of health facilities across the country.
He also commended the bank for its foresight, innovation and financing support for the project which is focused on ensuring sustainable health for vulnerable women, children and the elderly at little or no cost to beneficiaries.
Speaking on the partnership, MD/CEO of Sterling Bank, Mr. Yemi Adeola disclosed that the Bank has already accepted the request of the Honorable Minister of Health to serve as a primary partner to the Ministry on all health-related developments adding that the Bank is already working with some committees tasked with the responsibility of improving the sector.
He also disclosed that the Bank is supporting the 2016 edition of the Nigerian Service Delivery Innovation Challenge organised by the Federal Ministry of Health describing it as one of many areas of collaboration between the Bank and the Ministry of Health.
Mr. Adeola assured that the Bank would bring in private sector innovation and style as well as critical parameters to measure the success of the programme on a month-on-month basis and year-on-year basis to ensure the success of the programme from the logistics stand point and the point of view of implementation as the project rolls out from state to state.
He disclosed that the Bank is already providing financial and logistics support to operators in the sector across the value chain with assurance that the Bank would focus on the entire ecosystem of the health sector.
Mr. Adeola explained that Sterling Bank has invested over N500, 000,000 (Five Hundred Million Naira) in various activities under our Sterling Make Over (STEM) social responsibility initiative.
The programme covers the donation of uniforms to sweepers and highway managers in 15 states, tree planting activities to checkmate erosion in the Northern part of the country and the national quarterly cleaning exercise.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment