Share this on WhatsApp



By OKOSUN DENNIS
The Nigerian Army Officers’ Wives Association (NAOWA), 81 Division chapter, presented food items to widows of Nigeria fallen heroes as part of the Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration.
Mrs Omotola Oyefolu, the President of the Association, 81 Division chapter, made the presentation at Bonny cantonment officer’s mess in Lagos, urging wives of the fallen heroes to be strong and courageous.
National Daily gathered that the presentation was to reach out to some of the widows of the great men of honour that laid down their lives for the peace and progress of our great nation.
“I want to urge you wives to be strong and engage in positive ventures that would create  better life for you and your children in the future.
She urged them to endeavour to send their children to school, as education was a sure key to success in life.
“When our kids are educated, the chances of abuse, teenage pregnancy and other criminal tendencies would be reduced and they would have the opportunity to contribute to the development of the nation.
She pledged that the Association would come up with programmes that would benefit members as the year progressed.
Advising the widows on vocational training, Mrs Oyefolu urged them to take advantage of the Association’s newly renovated Vocational Training Centre in Dodan Barracks, Obalende, Lagos, to send their children and get training in various skill acquisition programmes.
National Daily learnt that food items including rice, salt, yam, groundnut and other groceries were given to 21 widows of soldier’s wives that died at different operations in and outside Nigeria.
Speaking with National Daily, one of the widows, Mrs Blessing Anthony, said the husband died after he was brought back during a military operation in Sudan. She expressed appreciation to NAOWA for their generosity.
The mother of two who lost her husband, a Sergeant in 2011 said she had been surviving by the grace of God and help from friends and family members.
Another widow, Mrs Adetutu Adeyanju, a mother of three, said she would be forever grateful to the Association for the food items given to them.
The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Maj Gen. Ebenezer Oyefolu, the 9 Brigrade Commander, Brig Gen. Sanni Mohammed, as well as other senior officers and members of NAOWA attend the event.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment