Agitated by the unpalatable treatment being metted out dead Nigerians, the House of Representatives on Tuesday moved to protect the rights of the dead.
A bill to protect dead bodies from abuses and undignified treatment has passed second reading on the floor of the House of Representatives.
When signed into law, anyone that abuses or desecrate a dead human body or any part of it ” purposely and illegitimately,” will go to jail for 5 years.
Titled “A bill for Prohibition of Desecration of Dead Bodies in Nigeria” the piece of legislation sponsored by a member, Rita Orji, PDP Ajeromi Ifelodun Representative from Lagos State, when passed into law shall defend the sanctity and sacredness of human life and compel people to respect the dead.
Orji while presenting the bill said desecration of the body should not be tolerated in any way, shape or form.”
According to her, all over the world institutions which handle dead bodies including the security outfits like soldiers in combat follow laid down rules on how they are to handle the dead.
According to her, “all religions have respect for the dead. Different religions, especially the monotheistic faiths, don’t accept any desecration of their own dead or the enemy’s dead.”
A member, Agbonayinman Johnson while supporting the bill said the way Nigerians treat dead bodies portrays the country in bad light.
His words: “It is difficult for Nigerians to be known for goods. I wonder how people would decide to make money from dead bodies.
“This is another form of corruption. Remember, we are all going to die one day so let us all support the bill.”
Henry Archibong (PDP Akwa Ibom ) also saw the bill in a positive light saying the bill when passed will protect the sanctity of life.
His words: “In the modern day Nigeria a lot of people are into selling of dead people’s bodies some are even exhumed, dismembered and sold or used for all kinds of rituals.
“If the bill is passed into law, it will take care of such acts”.
The bill was subsequently passed after the Speaker, Yakubu Dogara called for a voice vote, and read for the second time.

			
			PV: 
			0