Share this on WhatsApp



In 2016, Simi pulled more weight musically than Nigeria’s sweetheart Chidinma and the more experienced Seyi Shay.
When Simi signed to X3M Music in 2014, she was not a star, at least not yet. Sure the talent was there and she had a ‘debut album’ eight years prior as a gospel singer, but her journey had not been anything extraordinary.

If anything, it took too long for us to see the brilliance of the talent she obviously had. Even at the new record label, she didn’t have the clout of Praiz, a Project Fame finalist, who was regarded as the ‘lead player’ of the team.

However, it only took Simi a few months to drop two singles that made her more visible than she’d ever been. ‘Tiff’ and ‘E No Go Funny’ led into 2015 that was her breakout year.

When she did ‘Open and Close’ and ‘Jamb Question’ that year, she had no idea that a remix of the latter with Falz was what would make her the IT girl of 2016.

Since then, her several on and off stage collaborations with the rapper/comic/newest cool kid on the block have projected her to a level even she didn’t think was likely two years ago.

In 2016, the only female musicians that were more popular than her were Tiwa Savage(with 30 years worth of experience between she, Don Jazzy and husband Teebillz) and Yemi Alade (who’s currently enjoying a surge of traction across the continent).

Simi simply pulled more weight musically in 2016 than Nigeria’s sweetheart Chidinmaand the more experienced Seyi Shay.

She ended the year with an EP aptly titled Chemistry with Falz. If the reception of that body of work is anything to go by, an album in 2017 will sell out.

Already she’s been said to be ‘glowing’ and it’s clear to see why – a career in good hands at X3M Music , acceptability by the fans, a love life safely sheltered away from the public (she’s been said to be in a long term relationship with singer Adekunle Gold) – her ‘glow up’ is pleasing to see as it is with her ascension to pop star status.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment