Share this on WhatsApp



Poised to check illegal extortion by police officers across the country, the Inspector General of Police has authorized the demotion of a police Sergeant to the rank of a Corporal for engaging in wanton extortion against code of service.
National Daily gathered that the policeman was serving in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) while eight other officers received varying degree of sanctions depending on the gravity of offence committed as reported to the complaints Unit of the force.
It was learnt that in line with keeping to its mandate of receiving and resolving cases of professional misconduct against police officers, the rebranded Public Complaint Rapid Response Unit (PCRRU) of the Nigeria Police successfully resolved 636 cases reported against police officers nationwide between October and December, 2016.
According to Assistant Commissioner of Police Abayomi Shogunle, said in Abuja states that the Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim Idris has instituted a reward mechanism to Police Commands with zero case of police professional misconduct.
Shogunle added, “In the fourth quarter of 2016, a total number of 822 complaints were reported from across the federation with Lagos State Command maintaining top on the chart with 153 cases representing 18.62% while Kebbi State command has no recorded case since inception of the Unit.
“Also, police officers captured in recent viral online videos alleged of misconduct have been identified; apprehended and required departmental actions are ongoing.
FCT and Rivers Command had a total number of 130 and 116 cases respectively.
“The report also revealed that 156 out of the reported cases were found to be false. This is the highest number of false cases recorded in 2016. Telephone was said to have topped channels of public report to the unit with 591 calls.
ACP Shogunle further disclosed that to support the “Change Begins With Me” initiative of the Federal Government, the Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim Idris has mandated the PCRRU to also attend to complaints of abuse of office/corrupt practices involving public/civil servant at all levels of government.
He stressed that the unit call centre at Force Headquarters, Abuja was being upgraded to meet raising challenges.
Explaining some of its achievements in 2016, ACP Shogunle added that the unit successfully distributed PCRRU information flyers in English and in local languages to all 774 Local Government Areas was led by the IGP himself.
It would be recalled that the Police authority had established the PCRRU to enable aggrieved members of the public reach out to the authority through 24hrs interactive PCRRU platforms – Phone Call, SMS, WhatsApp, BBM, Twitter, Facebook and E-mail, to seek redress in cases of alleged police professional misconduct.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment