Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
Stakeholders in Ajeromi Ifelodun All Progressive Congress party, is resolved to wrest power from the Peoples Democratic Party come next election, having appraised the cause of their past electoral loss and set machineries in place to reinvigorate their political structures.
The disclosure was made at the APC of Ajeromi Ifelodun Local Government Area (BACO 007) family end of the year get together party held recently.
Gathered to grace the occasion were dignitaries who wield varying political influence and clout within Ajeromi’s polity,key players at the local,state and national level, the likes of former Deputy Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly,Rt. Hon. Kolawole Taiwo,APC State secretary Alhaji Abdulhakeem Bamgbala,former council chairman Hon. Bayewu Kamal,Alhaji Olatunde Balogun the Community Develoment Council (CDC) Chairman Ajeromi Ifelodun,one of the APC aspirant for the chairmanship position, Hon. Saheed Ojora, Hon.Hakeem Muniru Member of the Federal House of Representatives representing  Oshodi Isolo federal constituency II and former Commissioner  for Local Government and chieftaincy affairs Mr Ademorin Kuye.
Kolawole who suffered the greatest casualty,having lost his electoral bid to PDP candidate Hon. Dayo Famakinwa and by extension could not mount the speakership saddle,stressed that many infrastructural development that ought to have been in place in the constituency had eluded the area owing to the unfortunate loss.
According to him, the leaders need be mindful of what was instrumental to the dwindling fortune of the party in Ajeromi and assess what went wrong to address the structural political defects.
“Our togetherness is important for future political progress,we should not give in to infiltration, we are all leaders at different stratums,we should be more officious and ready to assist others at all times,without unity we can not attain any political heights.
“When we started AD back then cholera was prevalent in Amukoko, after our assumption of office we change things and restored sanity.
” Our internal wranglings spoilt 16years effort,PDP hardly print posters back then because they can’t assert themselves here,but implosion is the worst unfortunate incident that we grappled with here we ought to get rid of it now.
” Stop beating the drum of disruption,the simplest aspect of electoral process denied me speakership position,I won at primaries against 10 aspirants, contributed half a million each for the reelection of other members of the house of Assembly in my party clearing the coast for my speakership intent.
“Just one ward here where we had a child and mother hospital and where I spent four days campaigning unlike in other places cost me my electoral fortune,by now we should be boasting of not less than five high sea ports here but have just one”.
“Our party is supreme you need invite the Igbo’s to join us and give them positions for them to feel some sense of belonging,so that they won’t feel we hate them, there is a level of in secured feeling in their midst let’s stop discrimination”. Kolawole averred.
Other speakers at the forum, reiterated the need for concerted efforts to bring back the lost glory of the APC in Ajeromi Ifelodun constituency.
The event which was organised by individuals at the community level,witness presentation of certificates to some of them who made varying contributions to the success of the programme,officiated by Hon. Bayewu.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment