Share this on WhatsApp



The One-Woman proposition by Sterling Bank Plc designed to cater to the unique needs of women has sponsored a seminar on Women Empowerment and National Development for the Women Group of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI).
Speaking at the opening ceremony, General Manager, Corporate Banking, Sterling Bank, Mrs. Mojisola Bakare said theOne-Woman proposition offers value-added financial offerings to meet business and personal needs of women in Nigeria. The proposition also fosters support by providing platforms for women to support other women.
The GM who also doubles as the chairperson of the Financial Group of the LCCI, said the offerings included Sterling Maternal Medical Finance (SMMF) available to women for peculiar medical treatments like fibroid. 
Other features of the product are customized debit cards with a bold feminine touch that would provide cardholders access to discounts for spas, makeover services; and furniture/household items at select outlets and two percent discounts on interest rates for all existing retail loan products (e.g. personal loan, asset acquisition loan, MSME loans,) for women. Also included are Womenpreneurship, job shadowing schemes and capacity building programme for young women, internship opportunities with access to the MSME academy for free or at a discount.
Delivering her keynote address of the confab, christened: “The Nigeria we want:Women Empowerment and National Development. The nexus of policies, laws and practice,” Deputy Minority Whip in the Senate and Former Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, Senator Abiodun Olujimi, encouraged women to continue being shining examples in their various fields and take their future in their hands by being engaged in business or politics.  
“We are part of the system and we should be carried along. Women should be recognized, women should be heard, women should be respected and given a voice. Without legislation, nothing can work. We need legislation to move the Nigerian girl forward. Women must be politically and financially included,” Senator Olujimi said.  
Earlier, in her opening remarks, the President of LCCI, Dr. Mrs. Nike Akande, noted that Nigeria’s recent history had been characterised by various campaigns for the participation of more women in business and politics, adding that so far, women have proved to be exceptional in their performance in many leadership positions in the country.
ALSO SEE: Intels drags NIS boss to court over expatriates’ deportation
According to her, the truth is that it is not natural resources that would make the difference in the lives or guarantee the greatness of the country, it is the people, the human capital, the quality of the leadership at all levels and in all spheres of our national lives that will make the difference.  
The Chairperson of the LCCI Women Group, Yeye Agnes Shobajo, noted that LCCI Women Group is a vibrant group in the chamber that continued to advocate and support the participation of women in both public and private sectors of the economy. 
She remarked that the contribution of women was very critical to the advancement of economic growth in the country. She contended that for National Development to be all inclusive, women must also be active politically and lend their voices to ensure that policies and initiatives that support women empowerment were brought into focus and implemented. The chairperson said the conference offered a platform to strengthen collaborations and build network that would empower women for national development.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment