Share this on WhatsApp




The Nigerian youths have been urged to initiate good course that will entrench societal values and foster communal peace and tranquility.
This charge was given by the chairman of the G-35 convention,a youth based group geared towards transforming the state to a better place.
Akinseye Joshua Joshua (aka Imagine),chairman convention committee of G-35 movement,
In a chat with National Daily stated why the group embark on the clean Ojokoro initiative,noted that youths should make it a point of duty to positively impact their area.
“We are here today for sanitation exercise as you can see to ensure everywhere in our locality is clean,an initiative of Hon. Makinde. We discover that this thing is very good in order to promote the harmonization moves of the lawmaker this is what he has been agitating for that he wants every area to be clean and clear that was why he facilitated G-35 to come to this market and ensure the promotion of his interest by ensuring that everywhere is clean.
“As you can see this is about the largest market in this area,though our plan is to cover every other markets as far as  Ojokoro is concerned, so we just say let us start from here as this is the centre.
He further enjoined the traders to ensure a clean market,“All marketers and traders should continue in that light as failure to do that will pose health challenge.Youths within this community should also ensure cleanliness,do not wait until somebody push you as the number one thing is health,we were  received warmly here for the novel initiative.
Joshua also commended the large hearthedness of Alhaji Komorudeen Ajanaku the CEO Kamjek Nigeria Limited enterprises for collaborating with the group,by releasing a compactor free of charge with which waste gathered in the market is carted away.
One of the traders Mr Chuks Okafor,who spoke with newsmen counseled that although the initiative was well thought out,it would be better if a waste dumping container or a truck could be stationed in the market for periodic waste collection.
Chief Mrs Ramota Adegoke the Iyaloja of Ayawadun market Kola Alagbado Lagos who spoke earlier noted that a number of measures need be taken to ensure cleanliness in the market in spite of their collective efforts and that of the lawmaker which commended as a noble course.
“You see where this people are is a swampy spot in the rain and even if it rains now you will know what I am saying,the developer that handles the work here did not finish this market,the dirt you see  was moved by wind together here and it is difficult to pack at that time,but only now that the ground is a bit dry, made it easy to pack,prior to your coming I have met with those that supposed to do it but they ignored it.

“They say their wards that were to do it are yet to show up,then our sanitary inspectors have not really been alive to their duties here,other than to write notes, for instance here they need not write anything once they get here they should just ask the meat mongers to get up and do the needful,instead of that they will issue notes and those ones will throw it somewhere and lie that it is with the market leader.
It is a good step as championed by our Governor Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode that all the environs be kept clean and this is also bolstered by this move initiated by our representative at state the House of Assembly Hon. Rasheed Makinde,I urge him to continue with that positive stride,we want to plead with him to help us fill this place and debar it from getting messy often times,though the developer Mr Bode refused to complete the project this place will be better.
Aside this place in thi s place you have no other part that is this messed up.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment