Ediale Kingsley writes
“…and after the order of the biblical parting of the sea, Busquet played Moses and the first goal was scored against the White Pharaohs”
Iniesta is no mate of Modric
In this game there was only one captain fantastic. It was Iniesta, aside the fact that the other side’s captain, Ramos, was chasing his most loved Red Card. He was also sloppy.
Modric was writing a message for Iniesta in the first half of the game. It’s subject was about who truly controls the midfield. But before Modric could send that message, Iniesta took the pen and showed the class he is. Quite some significant miles away from the Croatian. This statement wasn’t just about lording the midfield, the Spaniard took on and dribbled the Croatian most of the times. As if to say, ‘hey, boy, know ya mate!’ It’s quite natural for some people to yet argue, even after his majestic performance over Modric and his team. So let’s ask Modric himself.
Me: Dear Modric, you or Iniesta who is better?
Modric: Iniesta is a great player. If people compare me to him, that makes me proud. He is one of the best midfielders in the history of football. I like playing against him. I admire him as a player and an athlete…in the position he plays, he’s the best.
Modric’s 90% pass accuracy per game is shrewd, but Iniesta seems the more likely to retain possession with his stunning 93% accuracy.
Modric has created 1.70 chances per 90 minutes this season, but Iniesta, despite playing 150 minutes less in La Liga this term, averages more per 90 (1.88).
Modric seems to be the more alert to danger and he has managed 1.70 interceptions per 90, a much higher figure than Iniesta (0.63), but the former Spurs man is out done when it comes to retaining possession, with his Squawka Possession Score (16.33) bettered by the Spanish star (20.49).
Messi comes through for special games
Lionel Messi, in his usual status, has a better El Clasico records than any other participants. When it comes to games the Argentine needs so damn well, he finds a way to deliver.
That’s what saw him get to the last World Cup finals.
When the world said Buffon was still a virgin (of Messi goals). He buried his head down and did the dis-virgining at the next slightest opportunity(Chelsea, take note).
So Ronaldo asked for Guard of Honor, coming from the World Club Cup defiling. Messi needed to remind him who the boss is. The Barca great wasn’t going to leave the Bernabeu until he gave us another walllpaper celebration. The build up of the last goal was an excellent closer.
Paulinho is answer to two questions
Once upon a time, there was the MSN. Defenders knew their capabilities but didn’t know how to stop them. If you go for M, SN could score. If you went for S, MN would score. And also going for N, means leaving SM to destroy you. Some managers partnered with their defenders to go for the entire MSN, they were also broken. Now Barca has Paulinho. A strong box to box sweeper that likes to score. Although his 40m euros signing was questioned. Today, 6goals after, he’s a darling. He does box to box and even is a false 9. The Brazilian was a false 9 against Madrid and this caused some serious confusion for the home team. He had several chances, although he didn’t score, it was good enough to cause the hack and disrupt the Madrid’s defence.
Busquets is defensive number 10
The first goal was scored by Luis Suarez, assist was by Roberto… However, the major credit goes to Busquets. He started off the match looking rusty, with some minor errors. But like we have come to know, his magic from the defence quarters, can produce goals in the opponent’s defence quarters.
Alba was born to replace Neymar in an upgrade manner
The presence of Alba on that wing tames Carvajal. Alba’s wing was respected even without the dancing Neymar. His records for assists this season gave enough concern and while Madrid was able to ensure a no-Alba assist. They had to do that leaving the middle open at times, and after the order of the biblical parting of the sea, Busquet played Moses and the first goal was scored against the White Pharaohs.
Ter Stergen is captain of a different kind of bus parking
Barca, even without it’s season’s best defender, Umtiti, still had a clean sheet. The goalie gave a superb show. His defenders were also impressive. Although, some few questioning emerged about handling of the ball in Box 18. But there’s no denying that up from the Guardiola’s era until now, this would be the best defensive wall for Blagruanas.
Aleix Vidal is the kind of low standard player a coach should love to have
Aleix Vidal was subbed in at the stoppage time to waste the time and avoid Madrid’s dying minutes heroics. The lad had other ideas though. Rather than have his name written as a time killer, he chose to be a match killer instead (a match winner). Every last goal in the El Clasico, especially the winning one is always priceless. Vidal may not be the very A-standard deserving of a Barca shirt, his attitude covers for all the shortcomings.
Rakitic is invincible
Moses needed his rod to part the sea. Busquets needed Ivan Rakitic.
Madrid will fall to PSG
Madrid may have triumphed over other teams at the world club cup tournament. Their form this season remains quite a doubt. They were topped, in their UCL group by Tottenham, beaten by Girona in the league, now conceded a 3 goals bashing from their arch rivals. It appears we are yet to see the worst of this squad that won the UCL last season. PSG is the next serious threat ahead. Falling to them means packing out of the UCL at such an early stage. Given the standards of the Spanish champions.

			
			Post Views: 
			110