Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari, on political matters, Babafemi Ojudu, has said former Vice President Atiku Abubakar is a desperate man playing his last political card.
Describing the former vice-president as a serial defector, he accused Abubakar of being desperate with his presidential ambition.
“Atiku is playing his last card. He is desperate to be president. If President Buhari gets a second term, he knows that the presidency will go to another region. Before it goes back to the north, it may take years and he would have become old.”
Ojudu claimed that Abubakar did not make any meaningful contribution to the All Progressives Congress (APC), a party he co-founded.
“Atiku’s defection is not surprising. During the meeting of the G-19, the Legacy Group that formed the APC, Atiku was there. We laid our programmes as a government before the party leaders and asked for their contributions. He was the only person who refused to talk,” he said.
“The second time the meeting was called, Atiku did not attend. We knew that he would leave. Each time he wants to leave a house, he demolishes the house.
“Though it will be stupid to dismiss his weight, he is an asset to an extent that he stays there. His goal is to become president. If he cannot get the ticket, he will leave.
ALSO SEE: Why EFCC arrested Innoson Motors’ boss, Innocent Chukwuma
“Atiku is playing his last card. He is desperate to be president. If President Buhari gets a second term, he knows that the presidency will go to another region. Before it goes back to the north, it may take years and he would have become old.
“What were the contributions of Atiku to APC’s efforts to rebuild Nigeria? What has he done in Adamawa to solve the problem of unemployment? What agenda for youths did he take to the president that was rejected?”
Ojudu accused Abubakar of twisting facts and whipping up sentiments against Buhari and the leadership of APC.
Abubakar had defected to the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) after accusing the government of President Muhammadu Buhari of sidelining him.

			
			PV: 
			0