Share this on WhatsApp




The Akin Ambode Campaign Group (AACG), a grassroots political support group geared towards the re-emergence of the incumbent Governor of Lagos State for the second term,come 2019 has kick started a process to ensure the realization of their political dream,citing his numerous achievements in the last 30 months as their driving force.
The group disclosed their intent at a well attended lecture/awards ceremony held recently in Lagos.
Speaking at the event,Hon. Segun Olulade a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly,representing  Epe constituency II and acting chairman house committee on Health Services highlighted the feats achieved by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode,citing provision health,social amenities,road,golden jubilee bridge at Abule-Egba and Ajah,infrastructural development all around the state.
The lawmaker who is set to vy for the membership of the Federal House of Representatives in the coming general election,opined that “given Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s unmatched achievements, a second term ticket guaranteed for him will surely bring about the actualization of the Mega/Smart City dreams of the State.
“In attest to the fact that having witness all this transformation within the space of 30 months of the Governor’s administration,he surely deserve a second term and we should all galvanize the needed support for that to come to fruition.
“I commend AACG for this lofty idea and would urge Lagosians and everyone present here to do the needful so as to ensure his re-emergence”. Olulade reiterated.
In his opening speech the Chairman AACG,Alhaji(Chief) M.A Soremekun stated that Ambode’s love for the masses is clearly mirrored in his prompt attention accorded projects that has direct impact on the lives of ordinary Lagosian.
“If Ambode’s mien towards developing Lagos is anything to go by, I think he deserves a second term and needs all the support we can muster for him.
The vice Chairman ACCG Honourable Sunday Adelaja,while reading out the general congress communique, stated the resolve of the group to, “mobilize millions of our members to levy one another to raise funds and purchase the nomination form for Governor Ambode’s second term.
“We call on His Excellency,Mr Akinwunmi Ambode to declare interest in the governorship race for the next administration of Lagos State,also that the good people of Lagos State earnestly request  that Governor continue his good work for another term of four years.
“Notify the members of ruling party,All Progressives Congress to graciously galvanize the forces to ensure victory for Governor Ambode at the next governorship primaries of the party.
“To draw the attention and seek the blessing of our National Leader,Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for sponsorship of Governor Ambode for the second term.
 
Awards were presented to dignitaries at the event,notable among whom were;Otunba Jide Oni, Chairman of Jidmas construction company, who got an award for his contributions to the development of his community and people around him was also a recipient of the award.
Dr.Eniayewun Ademuyiwa Benjamin Chief Executive Officer and Medical Director of Island Maternity also bagged an award for turning around the fortune of Igando General Hospital and excellent service delivery in the health sector.
The AACG Coordinator General Chief Olufemi Akintunde Ambode, a blood relation of the Governor gave the vote of thanks.
National daily reports that AACG local government chairmen all around the state appended their signatures to the communique.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment