CEO OF MLF, Francis Ben-Adesokan unveiling the SeamWith in Ikeja on Monday
        Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Olusegun
 
My Liberty Family, aka MLF has assured its numerous virtual family members not to entertain any fear or doubt as the platform is still very much alive and in fact working assiduously to make the platform an all-encompassing bus stop for all business minded individuals.
CEO of MLF, Francis Ben-Adesokan gave the assurance on Monday, 18th of December, 2017 during the unveiling of a new platform. SeamWith. He said many people had failed to fully understand the workings of MLF before jumping into it taking a dive at it
According to him, MLF is not about patience, but more about an in depth understanding of how it works, adding that payment on the platform is not about time, but has to do with numbers and people.
“Liberty Family as a module is celebrating its first year anniversary. This has benefited thousands of virtual family members and made them entrepreneur first time millionaires within its first year and still counting.”
He said the system was created to help members receive financial support from fellow family members. The conventional financial systems have not helped much with giving the average Nigerian the desired financial support that this platform aims at giving.
Ben-Adesokan also allayed the fears of many that MLF was a Pyramid scheme that would not last. He said MLF is not a pyramid scheme because its system doesn’t keep people perpetually at the top like most pyramid schemes.
ALSO SEE: DPR swoops on filling stations
“Our system is designed in such a way that when you get to the top, you’re checked out and must have contributed to those coming behind. And as you exit, it brings you back to the bottom.”
He said aside from providing the much needed funds for various businesses or engagements, MLF also provide business ideas and financial consultancy to its entire members.
Speaking on the new platform, Ben-Adesokan said SeamWith is not just another social platform, but a platform born out of a strong desire to provide a robust solution that meets a wide range of needs in today’s online world.
He said the new platform offers an array of opportunities for people, and will allow you to seam with other users and members.
According to him, social media is changing the communication and perception of people both positively and negatively. He said Nigeria is a country blessed with many potentials and talents, and SeamWith is just one of the evolving talents from Nigeria.
On the new platform are Seam Centre, SeamPro, Seambox and SeamChat.
SeamChat, he said, offers real time interactions among members,  SeamBox offers a video-sharing platform with endless opportunities while  SeamPro is a marketplace for professionals in order to increase their visibility.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment