Less than a week after some suicide bombers detonated bombs killing several people, a twin bomber on Saturday harvested 13 deaths, over 53 others injured in a suicide attack on Borno market.

The incident which took place at the main market in Biu town, Biu Local Government Area Of Borno State, were carried out by two female bombers who had strapped the explosive devices to their bodies before sneaking into the market.

According to the Borno State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Victor ISuku, said in a statement that the suicide bombers sneaked into the main market and detonated her IED while the second was said to have blew up herself at the entrance of the market.

DSP Isuku explained that about 1140hrs, “two female suicide bombers infiltrated and gained entry into Biu town in Biu LGA. One of the bombers detonated IED strapped on her body within Biu Main market, while the other one detonated outside d market square.

“So far,  a total of 13 persons excluding the two suicide bombers, have been confirmed killed  in the two explosions. While 53 others sustained various degrees of injuries.”

Immediately, it was learnt, the police authorities deployed patrols/EOD teams led by the Acting Area Commander Biu and cordoned the epic centre while the evacuation of the causalities and the injured were moved to the General Hospital, Biu.

Meanwhile, in another development, the Nigerian Army said on Saturday that troops killed three Boko Haram insurgents at Gajibo village in Dikwa Local Government Area of Borno State.

According to the Deputy Director of Army Public Relations, Theatre Command, Operation Lafiya Dole, Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, in Maiduguri said the troops killed the three insurgents, when a group of terrorists attempted to attack Gajibo community on Thursday.

He explained that the Boko Haram  insurgents had launched an attack on the village using a Military Personnel Carrier and gun trucks, but were swiftly repelled by the troops.

“Troops of the 22 Brigade deployed in Operation Lafiya Dole on Thursday evening killed three Boko Haram insurgents in an encounter that ensued when a group of insurgents attempted an attack on Gajibo community in the fringes of Dikwa Local Government Area of Borno State.

“The insurgents armed with Armoured Personnel Carrier and gun trucks met with fierce resistance from the troops, who successfully defended Gajibo village after routing the insurgents. Troops also recovered three AK 47 rifles from the insurgents.

“Currently, troops are further exploiting the success of the counter offensive and are still in pursuit of the insurgents,” he said
In the last couple of months, suicide attacks have increased in the north east with several people killed in deadly attacks.













			
			Post Views: 
			46