Share this on WhatsApp



In its bid to stop the deportation of its 102 expatriate staff out of the country, Intels Nigeria Limited has dragged the Comptroller-General of Nigeria Immigration Service, NIS, Mr. Muhammed Babandede, before the Federal High Court in Abuja.
In the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/1180/2017, Intel’s otherwise known as the plaintiff told the court that the Immigration boss acted “unreasonably” when he issued a press release on November 15, revoking Residence/Work Permits of its expatriate staff, and further threatened to ensure that they were deported from Nigeria.
Represented by its team of lawyers, led by Mr. Adeniyi Adegbonmire, SAN, Intels further stressed that revocation was premised upon a purported withdrawal of its operational license by the Oil and Gas Free Zone Authority.
Intels said that the NIS boss otherwise known as the defendant had threatened to recommend to the Minister of Interior that its expatriates be deported any day from November 30.
The company added that it will suffer untold hardship and irreparable injury to its business in the event that the NIS is not restrained in the manner sought in this application.
ALSO SEE: FG compounds Atiku woes, revokes Intels expatriates permits
Intels in the suit pray the court to declare the action/decision of the Respondent in revoking or purportedly revoking the Residence/Work Permits of the under listed persons, all of which are Expatriate Staff of the Applicant, and consequently directing that the said persons do leave the territory of the Federal Republic of Nigeria not later than the 30th day of November, 2017, or face deportation is unlawful, unconstitutional, wrong and void ab initio.
It also among other prayers seek an order of certiorari quashing the decision of the Respondent, as conveyed in the Nigeria Immigration Service Press Release dated 15th Novemver, 2017 and an order of interim injunction restraining the Respondent either acting by himself or through officers of the Nigeria Immigration Service, his agents, servants or privies or any other body howsoever otherwise described from further interfering with, in whatever manner, or disturbing the lawful resident/work status granted the Expatriate Staff of the Applicant as hereinbefore listed, pending the hearing and determination of the Motion on Notice dated 24th November, 2017 and filed alongside this application”. Alternatively, the plaintiff prayed the court for.
Hearing of the matter was stalled on Monday because legal representative of the NIS boss was absent in court.The case was presided over by Justice Ahmed Mohammed.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment