Share this on WhatsApp



The Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Community Development Committee (CDC),in Lagos State has urged the Federal Government and Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode to save,the community from the “siege” caused by trucks and trailers.
The community leaders made the plea at the 2017 Ajeromi-Ifelodun Community Day and Award Ceremony tagged:”My Community, Your Community ” held at Abayomi Awodi-Ora hall.
The CDC chairman, Alhaji Olatunde Balogun, who noted that the event was to emphasise the need for unity to move the community forward, added that the operation of tanker drivers was affecting the community.
Balogun said that the traffic congestion on Oshodi-Apapa expressway had made truck drivers see the inner roads as an alternative which led to its dilapidated state,with an attendant adverse impact on the community.
“We are pleading with the government to come to our aid by providing us a dual carriage road, it is only Ajeromi-Ifelodun LG that doesn’t have such roads.Trucks and trailers have besieged our inner roads because of the situation of the expressway.
“We need help and we are also planning to put barriers to prevent these trucks from gaining entrance into our community.
We know we can’t do this unless we will partner with the government,” he said.
The community leader, who also noted the the community did not have any fire service station situated in the area, said the challenge was giving the community sleepless night in case of emergency.
ALSO SEE: Woman who kills her rich husband for insurance arrested
The chairman, who however called for collective efforts to take the community to the enviable heights, urged all residents to see themselves responsible for whatever befall the community through their actions and inactions.
According to him, the CDC has been able to facilitate employment opportunities for 361 youths by through partnership with companies resident in the area.
He said that CDC had a robust partnership with security agencies by providing intelligence to improve the security of the area popularly described as “jungle “
He commended Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode for the positive change  brought to the area while awaiting the fulfilment of other promises.
On roads, he said that the community was already talking with the Governor to links Tin Can to Temidire.
Mrs Ogbei Ajayi, the LGA Woman leader, who noted that the the event brought together all communities that made up the council to foster unity, urged government to redouble efforts at transforming the area.
Ajayi urged the local government to liaise with the state government to address the problems of roads, water and security as well as women empowerment in the area.
Mr Kamal Bayewu, the immediate past council chairman said: “Our community is doing well except for the seige of all these trailers that have taken the entire community. Every trailer should go through the express, let them leave the inner access roads at least for the community people to use. This is not the road to the Apapa port, it is just the shortcut.
The truck drivers should go through the Federal Government road where they are paying all their taxes. Truck drivers should leave out inner roads.”
Bayewu urged the council leadership to relate with the state government and minister of transport to come to the rescue of the community.Mr Salako Jolaosho, a resident community, urged the government to do more on security of lives and property saying local guards were employed by each community to ensure security.
Also speaking, High Chief Akinsanya Disu, a traditional ruler in the area, who called for unity to move the community forward, commended the state government for its efforts to develop the area.
Disu commended former Gov. Babatunde Fashola, now Minister of Power, Works and Housing for the development brought to the area.
The event featured series of traditional dance, theatre, cultural displays and award presentation.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment