Share this on WhatsApp



In other to consolidate and further expand Mercedes- Benz business in Nigeria, Weststar Associates, sole distributors of the brand in Nigeria and FCA have agreed to mutually terminate its distributorship of other brands like Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, RAM and Fiat agreement. 
According to a statement from the auto firm, the termination became effective from, Monday, 5th December 2017.
The mutual arrangement between both parties, according to Mr. Mirko Plath (Managing Director/CEO – Weststar Associates Limited) is in line with Weststar’s plans to provide undivided focus to the Mercedes-Benz brand as it embarks on an increased business scale of activities in the coming year. 
Speaking on customers that have purchased FCA vehicles, Mr. Plath stated that Weststar owes a duty to continue to support its customers with after-sales services for the Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, RAM and Fiat vehicles until a new distributor is announced by FCA. In Mr. Plath’s words, “We reassure our valued customers of our unfailing commitment to continue to provide excellent services as always, however the distributorship for the FCA brands in Nigeria will be announced anytime soon“.
ALSO SEE: NDDC to cancel 482 contracts valued at N90b
Mr. Plath, on behalf of Weststar’s Management team, expressed his gratitude to the company’s long standing customers and business partners as he looks forward to more successful business years ahead for Weststar. 
Meanwhile, Mercedes-Benz delivered 195,698 vehicles to its customers, thus achieving the 57th record month in succession with a 7.2% increase. 
This adds up to a sale of 2,095,810 units since the beginning of the year 2017. This represents 
not only the best-ever figure for the period of January to November, but also a growth of
10.7% in unit sales. The sales achievement makes Mercedes-Benz the premium brand with the most new registrations in markets including Germany, France, Italy, Austria, Portugal, Taiwan, USA, Canada, and Mexico.
By model, the E-Class Saloon and Estate were top sellers by popular demand. The strong sales of the prior-year month were surpassed by 8.2% and a new record was set for this November (29,110 units). Since the beginning of the year, unit sales were 46.0% higher than the first eleven months of 2016. Particularly strong demand for the long-wheelbase version of the E-Class Saloon meant that twice as many units of that model were sold as in the first eleven months of the previous year.
Mercedes-Benz SUVs set new records for the month of November (73,418 units) as well as for the first eleven months (731,626) – not only worldwide, but also in each of the three core regions of Europe, Asia-Pacific and NAFTA. Sales growth of 19.8% in November was primarily driven by the GLC, GLA, GLC Coupé and GLS, each of which posted new best-ever figures.
 “We are pleased to celebrate this global accomplishment. Mercedes-Benz is forging into the new year with bigger expectations as we have more in store for our customers especially in Nigeria,” – Mirko Plath, MD/CEO, Weststar Associates Limited, Authorized General Distributors for Mercedes-Benz in the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment