Share this on WhatsApp



More than one year on the board, Chairman of Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) board, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye has given hint on why President Muhammadu Buhari found him worthy of serving his government as the chairman of NCC board.
In his remarks at the 2017 Thanksgiving and Carol Service organized by the Christian Fellowship at the Commission’s headquarters, Abuja, Durojaiye cited his recent appointment as a classical example of one good turn deserves another.
He revealed that President Buhari, had assigned him a national duty in 1983 which he delivered without blemish, stressing that his goodwill in 1983 paid off with the appointment as board chairman of NCC 33 years after.
According to him, he never compromise integrity and hard work as only the duo will sustain stainless character.
Durojaiye maintained that “The cardinal point of the President Mohammadu Buhari’s administration is the fight against corruption. It was upon that basis that he appointed me to this job last year and it is necessary for me to tell those under my watch that what helped me as a younger man was diligent and integrity, hard work and honesty.
ALSO SEE: Massive investment in internet infrastructures, broadband needed in Africa — NCC
“It helps, even when you have forgotten it, you will be called upon and honoured. That was what happened to me. It is my experience and I want all staff of NCC to benefit from it as they continue to serve Nigeria in NCC.
Explaining more on why the Commission is in the habit of yearly Thanksgiving Service, Secretary of the NCC’s board, Mr. Felix Adeoye said the thanksgiving programme was an annual event meant for the staff of the NCC to express gratitude to God for his mercies and seeing them through the whole year.
He said “At the end of the year, it is always nice and a good thing to say thank you Lord, knowing full well that we are not the only ones available to be blessed. Many had gone, others in hospitals, if you started the year well, and ended it well, you should be able to remember that somebody sustains us. You need to go back and say thank you.
The event featured NCC Choir carol ministration, drama ministration and scriptural readings. The highlight was thanksgiving offering and cutting of cake by all members of the NCC Christian fellowship.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment