Share this on WhatsApp



A Lagos lawmaker, Hon. Victor Akande has canvassed for constitutional roles for traditional rulers,so that they can effectively contribute to development in the society.

Akande, who is representing Ojo Constituency 1 in the Assembly, also urged constituted authorities to respect traditional rulers and the institutions they represent.

“We are all still going back to our communities and we will become their subjects, so we should respect them, while in office. However, the only way the traditional rulers can make themselves relevant is for them not to beg for money from politicians.

“They should do what is right at all times and guide our traditional institutions jealously,” he said.

The lawmaker spoke on the sideline of his being conferred with the title of Otunba Amo Eto of Ojokoroland in Lagos by Oba Rilwan Oluwalanbe, while his wife Olaide was made the Yeye Amo Eto of the area.

Akande, who is the Chairman of the House Committee on Central Business District (CBD), promised to do his best to represent the people of his community and contribute to the development of Ojokoro Area.

He told journalists that the people of the area decided to confer the chieftaincy title on him having seen what he has been doing for the people of Ojo Constituency 1.

“The Oba and his people felt that I deserve the title though I am not from the area. I was told that they have been following what I  do through the media and they decided to encourage me by giving me the title.

People follow events in the media and I think that is what the Oba and his people have been watching in the media.

“They wrote to me and said that they were impressed by what I did recently by empowering about 300 people and I gave out 15 laptops.







ALSO SEE: Fresh crisis rocks PDP over Secondus emergence

“How I commissioned boreholes and when I gave JAMB forms to some students and how I have been contributing on the floor of the House. If such is coming outside your constituency it shows that one is working,” he said.

He urged others to do their best for the people, while thanking the people of Ojokoroland for what they have been doing.

The ceremony, which was attended by chiefs and residents of the area, was graced by the Speaker of the Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, Majority Leader, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade, and Deputy Majority Leader, Hon. Olumuyiwa Jimoh.

Others included the Deputy Chief Whip of the Assembly, Hon. Omotayo Oduntan, Hon. Bisi Yusuff,Hon. Richard Kasunmu, Hon Fatai Oluwa and Hon. Noheem.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment