Oladele Bolatito is the CEO of Lateetoh Events & Gifts and also the lead planner of THE REAL GIG. She’s a graduate of Business Administration. A seasoned event producer and organizer, spanning almost a decade. The Real Gig (TRG) December Edition is an End of The Year Dinner Event for Corporate entities; bringing together people from different business and corporate backgrounds. The event is to ease corporate bodies of the stress of organizing and managing year events; considering budgets and networking. This is to guarantee you of stronger bonds and meeting new people ahead of 2018. Read through the chat we had with Bolatito about her December gig and other matters.
 
Your December event, I guess it’s basically and totally what therealgig.com is all about?
No, it’s not. The real gig is basically to capture all festive periods for corporate and semi-corporate organizations, consequently the real gig December event is the baby event of what the real gig is all about.

Can you tell us about it?
The Real Gig (TRG) Christmas dinner is an End of The Year Dinner Event for Corporate entities & individuals; bringing together people from different business and corporate backgrounds. The event is to ease corporate bodies & individuals of the stress of organizing and managing end of the year events; considering budgets and to network for better leverage in terms of productivity business-wise in the year 2018.

What inspired the idea and would you say the gap you intend fill has been well received by your targeted clients?
It’s all about Networking and giving back to the society. Having been in the business for awhile, the need for entrepreneurs cum CEO to network with other people is very much in my heart. And also the passion to give back to the society drives this whole idea.

How affordable is this for your potential clients?
The reception of the whole idea has been really welcoming hence, passion partially fulfilled. The event is fashioned to meet all class of people, hence affordable.

What are the factors considered for the choice of venue?
We are quick to state that the choice of venue is premised on the fact that Classique event place is one of the top 5 purposes built event place in Lagos 2017. Factors also considered for the choice of venue are: targeted clients, amenities, security, taste & classy, cozy, power supply.

What are the factors also considered for the choice of performances and entertainment?
A-list performers have been penned to headline the event, to give the event the desired publicity being its maiden edition and also to wow our guests.

You talk about networking. Are we having one big party for all your potential corporate organizations? Kindly explain how every and each organizations coming for this can also experience some privacy or internal bonding?
Yes we are and need I say this is the essence of the whole gig “Networking” after the one-hour purple carpet cocktail event with soundless music (platform for networking) table reserved for different organizations and staff of the organization will be seated together and also we have various team bonding activities lined up.

As an event planner in these seemingly trying times, how has business been for you?
My faith in God and tenacity has made me strive ahead and scale above the board even against the unfriendly economy.


			
			Post Views: 
			139