Share this on WhatsApp
Aero Contractors, Nigeria’s oldest private airline will soon be back in operation following the appointment of a new CEO for the embattled local carrier, National Daily has gathered.
Its new owners, the Assets Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON) has appointed the Deputy Managing Director, Arik Air, Capt. Ado Sanusi as the new Chief Executive Officer.
AMCON spokesperson, Mr Jude Nwauzor made this known in a statement issued at the weekend.
Nwauzor explained that Sanusi would assume office on Monday to take over from Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, who was recently appointed Managing Director, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) by the Federal Government.
The AMCON official said the objective of the appointment was to make Aero, which remains Nigeria’s oldest carrier regain its prime position within the shortest possible time.
Sanusi was Deputy Managing Director of Arik Air, the largest local carrier in the country. He previously led NAMA as Managing Director in 2009.
Sanusi, who is expected to hit the ground running on resumption, has been mandated by the AMCON management to reposition the airline. “This is by returning it to full operational capacity, offering reliable, safe and secure operations which the airline is known for,” he said.
The AMCON official noted further that industry watchers had also commended AMCON for the appointment of Sanusi whom they described as the best suited for the job of rebuilding Aero.
He said that the stakeholders believed that Sanusi would bring his experience to bear in rejuvenating the airline.
Sanusi started his flying carrier in Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria where he obtained Commercial Pilot License and a National Diploma in Aeronautical Sciences.
He said that Sanusi later went to the United States where he obtained Air Transport Pilot Licence, Certified Flight and Ground Instructor’s license in many institutions in United States.
Sanusi also worked for Kabo Air, a local airline as a Senior First Officer and then proceeded to ExxonMobil as Captain and flight Safety Officer.
He then joined Virgin Nigeria as a Captain on the B737 Classic and later became the MD, NAMA.
He was responsible for managing the entire Nigerian Airspace and succeeded in laying the foundation for a performance base airspace.
Other parastatals Sanusi worked in the aviation industry include NCAT, Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NIMET) and the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) where he implemented the total radar coverage on the Nigeria Airspace (TRACON).
Aero suspended flights on 1 September 2016. AMCON owns 60 per cent of the shares.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment