The Department of State Services (DSS) has summoned the immediate past Governor of Benue State Mr Gabriel Suswan over illegal arms and ammunitions discovered in a property belonging to him.
National Daily gathered that last Friday DSS operatives in a six hour operation executed a search warrant, at one of Suswan’s properties used by Dunes Investment and Global Properties Ltd, located at No 44 Aguiyi Ironsi Way, Maitama-Abuja.
The operation was informed by intelligence that some incriminating items were stashed in the boots of cars parked at the property, particularly a Mercedes Benz S550 (BWR 135AH), and Masarati 4.7 (BWR 207 AJ), which were subsequently confiscated.
Among the weapons recovered during the operation include Glock pistol with two magazines and a total of 29 rounds of ammunition; Mini-Uzi with two magazines containing 10 rounds and 4 rounds respectively; Forty-two extra rounds of ammunition contained in a pack; and One (1) AK-47.
Other items recovered include 21 Certificates of Occupancy (C of O) and one Offer of Statutory Right of Occupancy; 23 Luxury designer watches; and 45 keys to various exotic cars.
Following this discovery, the Service launched further investigation which revealed that the cars and the recovered items belong to the former Governor of Benue State, Gabriel SUSWAN who has already been invited by the Service and presently helping in the investigations.
Tony Opuiyo a top director of the Service in a statement made available to National Daily said “In the light of this latest development, the Service wishes to sound a note of warning to persons and groups that it will no longer tolerate any acts of lawlessness by those who ought to be law abiding and responsible citizens.
“The Service has also observed with total dismay the inciting utterances of some political actors whose activities heat-up the polity.
“It also wishes to express its disappointment with these politicians who, in their desperation, are engaged in hate speeches and even sponsorship of radio campaign jingles when the electoral umpire has not authorized such campaigns in line with the Electoral Act.
“More worrisome is the unpatriotic involvement of some media outfits in these divisive tendencies which negate their constitutional role as the fourth estate of the realm.
“In line with its statutory mandate of maintaining the peace and internal security of the country, the Service hereby restates its commitment to go after anyone no matter how highly placed who engages in acts capable of causing the breach of peace in the country.”

			
			Post Views: 
			199