Share this on WhatsApp

says job secured




By Lanre Adesanya
Contrary to widely held notion that the Private Sector Participation scheme is about to be phased out by the Lagos state government,members of the Lagos State House of Assembly have reassured the workers of job security, through the harmonized environmental bill on a law to provide for the management, protection and sustainable development of the environment and for other connected purpose.
While presenting the report of the Committee, Chairman of the Committee, Hon. Oludayo Fafunmi explained that the bill which contains over 152 sections stated that the proposed legislation is a compendium of laws dealing with the management of waste disposal and general environment development in the State with a view to harmonizing them into a single document. It would be recalled that a public hearing on the harmonization of the environmental laws of the State took place on the 9th of February where PSP operators expressed fear over losing their jobs to foreign concessionaire.
He added that the intention of government is not to take away the job of PSP workers and give it  to foreign investors, rather it is a legal framework where both local and foreign investors would be accommodated in the process.
The Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa during the debate insisted on ensuring the need to protect the local investors “we should do it in a way that they will be accommodated”.
According to the Chairman on Environment, Hon. Fafunmi the bill intends to create a level ground to both local and international investors and indeed  favour local investors more.
Hon. Fafunmi stated that while noting some deficiencies in the bill, assured that bill  will be redrafted in order to suit all.
 The Majority Leader, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade who also contributed explained that to ensure harmonization of the PSP operators, they have been asked to seek for authorization to establish those that have the standard capacity for the job and co-opt those who do not have the capacity under those that have “There is no intention of taking the local operators off their schedules”.
Amendments are also made on raised issues on the recommendation of the report, ranging from approval of the board members by the House of Assembly and not to the Governor of the State. Also penalty for non-payment is suggested for 30 days grace rather than the suggested 14 days to consider salary earners among others.
The Chairman of the Committee has been enjoined to effect the corrections for the bill to move to the next stage.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment