The Anambra State governorship election billed for November this year, has forced the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senator representing Anambra South Senatorial zone, Mr. Andy Uba, to defect to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
Uba’s move confirms earlier rumours that he would soon make a switch to the ruling party in pursuit of a life-long ambition to rule the State and enjoy federal might to accomplish this task.
The senator, who owes his major achievements in politics so far to the former ruling party, PDP, said that he joined the APC because it has ideology and focus which is essential for him to tap into  so as to give quality representation to his constituents.
He made his defection official at a news briefing in his home town, Uga, Aguata Local Government Area of the state on Wednesday, adding that he joined the ruling APC by registering as its member in the party’s ongoing re-registration exercise in the state.
Another reason Uba gave as warranting him to dump the PDP for APC was that the ruling party has personalities with sound ideas.
Among these personalities, he said, are Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige and APC National Auditor, Chief George Muoghalu.
The senator who claimed that with such personalities APC party will take the state to enviable heights, said that by joining them, he would be very efficient in living up to the longings of his people.
The state chapter of APC had in a recent statement claimed that Uba, among several other politicians in the state, some of them staunch PDP members, have indicated their desire to aspire for the state number position in the coming November governorship election in the state.
Other PDP stalwarts in Anambra State who had defected to the APC include Ifeanyi Ubah a billionaire oil mogul, Comrade Charles Nwoye a former PDP gubernatorial candidate, Senator Ekwunife among other big wigs in the state.
Andy Uba a USA based consultant was brought back to Nigeria by former President Olusegun Obasanjo to serve as his Senior Special Assistant. Uba is from the political Uba family that parades the likes of Chris and Ugochukwu Uba.