Share this on WhatsApp
Acting President Yemi Osinbajo has been patted on the back for signing into law seven of the bills recently passed by the National Assembly.

Giving the commendation yesterday in Lagos, a political group operating under the aegis of Yemi Osinbajo Vanguard (YOV) lauded Osinbajo for promptly assenting to the bills, saying it was in conformity with present reality in the country.

Coordinator of the group, Mr. Oluwaseyi Bamigbade, while speaking with newsmen, said the endorsement of the Pension Rights of Judges (Amendment) Act, 2017 and six other bills would help address the challenges in the sectors.

He said, “For instance Oaths (Amendment) Act, 2017; Defence Space Administration Act, 2017; Veterinary Surgeons (Amendment) Act, 2017, and National Film and Video Censors Board (Amendment) Act, 2017 will help to regulate activities in those industries.

“With the endorsement of the Nigeria Institute of Soil Science (Establishment, etc.) Act, 2017, and Mortgage Institutions (Amendment)Act, 2016 the industries have been repositioned for growth and development.”

According to Bamigbade, the act was a demonstration of President Muhammadu Buhari- led administration’s commitment to put the Nigerian economy on the path of growth.

He said the group believed in the doctrine that every sovereign nation must rise to determine its destiny, and it is its choice, not by chance, to determine its destiny.

He said that was what was depicted in the Defence Space Administration Act that establishes the Defence Space Administration in order to develop satellite technology and ensure security of the nation’s cyber activities.

Speaking further, Bamigbade said the group had also declared three day national fasting and prayers sessions for quick recovery of President Buhari who is currently on medical vacation in the United Kingdom.

According to him, the swift way the acting president has been able to hold forth for the president, carrying out several presidential duties has showed the synergy and good working relationship in the executive arm of government.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment