Pix 1, l-r: Director, Independent Newspapers, Adaobi Nwakuche, presenting the award of the Most Innovative Bank won by UBA Plc to the Divisional Head, Digital and Consumer Banking, United Bank for Africa( UBA) Plc, Mr Yinka Adedeji while Managing Director, Independent Newspapers, Mr. Ted Iwere looks on, at the Independent Newspapers Awards, held in Lagos at weekend
        Share this on WhatsApp



United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc has added yet another award to its growing list of laurels as it emerged Most Innovative Bank of the Year at the Independent Newspapers Awards.
The award which is a recognition of UBA’s innovative products and services is coming on the heels of recent awards hauled by the Bank, including Finnacle Client Innovation Awards, and Best Bank Awards won by its 5 subsidiaries across Africa by The Bankers Magazine.
Receiving the award for UBA, Group Head, Consumer and  Digital Banking, United Bank for Africa, Dr. Yinka Adedeji, thanked the organisers for the recognition noting that he is delighted that UBA’s dedication to hard work and particular emphasis on quality to customer needs  are been recognised.
Dr. Adedeji disclosed the award affirms the Bank’s strong management and commitment to service excellence.
“We assure our customers that we are committed to continually bring the best in the financial technology space to ensure they always have the best and most convenient banking experience with all our service channel,” Adedeji explained.
Managing Director of Independent Newspapers, organisers of the awards, Mr. Ted Iwere said UBA’s relentless pursuit of a global vision has seen it invest in the most secured IT platforms in Nigeria and by extension, African banking industry, which  has guaranteed customer experiences on its banking platform.
Iwere noted that UBA’s internet banking application and data centre operations passed the ISO 27001 Certification, thereby confirming the adequacy of the banks security platform for online transactions.
He further said, UBA has proven its leadership position in e-banking with the introduction of mobile Point of Sales (Mpos) terminals doing this in partnership with relevant stakeholders across Africa.
The event played host to dignitaries and business leaders, from different industries across Nigeria  including: the deputy Governor of Rivers State; Dr. (Mrs) Ipalibo Harry Banigo, Mr. Sam Amuka, Publisher, Vanguard, Mr. Eric Osagie, Managing Director, Sun Newspapers Mr. Sam Cookey, CEO, Space Concepts
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment