Do you want to apply for US visa in Nigeria? Diversity created America. It`s a country of the American dream and the large bunch of possibilities. Therefore, many people have a desire to visit this country and even stay there forever. If you are one of that persons, then you might expect American Visa Application guidelines.
USA immigrant visa
Citizens of Foreign Countries who have a desire to permanently stay in the USA must obtain an immigrant Visa. This must the first step of becoming a lawful resident in the USA. If you want to immigrate to the USA, then you should understand that it`s a serious decision. American visa application process can be very long. There are several types of Immigrant Visa in the USA. In this article, it`s needed to be focused on the three most popular immigrant visas. In two of them, the foreign citizen must be sponsored by a USA relative, USA lawful permanent resident or USA employer. The sponsor of the foreign immigrant should address the petition to the US Citizenship and Immigration Services. Foreign citizens can also apply for US visa.
Family Immigrant Visa
USA citizens can file the petition to the USCIS for:
Parents, Sister or brother, Daughter or Son and Spouse
A lawful permanent resident (green card holder) can file the petition to the USCIS for:

Spouse
Unmarried daughter or son

The sponsors must file an I-130 Petition for Alien Relative with the USCIS.
Employer Immigrant Visa
Any USA employer can sponsor a trusted skilled worker to be hired into permanent job in the USA. The laws of the country allow some prospective immigrants to sponsor themselves. USA also provides a number of special immigration categories and immigrant investor programs.

If your sponsor or employer want you to become a permanent resident in the USA, then it`s needed to write the petition I-140 Petition for Alien Worker with US Citizenship and USCIS. In some categories of the immigrant visa, you can also file the petition by yourself.
USA Visa lottery – Can Nigerians apply in 2017?
Diversity Visa Lottery program can be treated as a new way for people who have a desire to get a fresh start in a complete new country. USA is the country of dreams as it gives 50 000 diversity visas every year. This program is possible due to the Section 203(c) from the Imigration and Nationality Act mandated by the USA Congress. This made American Visa Application available for the persons of many nations. Ufortunately, from 2015 Nigerians are not eligible for USA Diversity Visa program.



			
			Post Views: 
			550