Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State has demanded the dismissal of the two soldiers who brutalised a physically-challenged man, Mr. Chijioke Oraku, in Onitsha, Anambra State.   
Oraku, a native of Ikwo Local Government Area,   was dehumanized by the two soldiers, penultimate week, for   wearing army camouflage. The video of the brutalisation went viral on social media platforms, exposing the wickedness of the soldiers, thereby attracting national outrage that made the Army authorities to demote the soldiers and sentence them to 21 days in detention.

Umahi, who received Oraku during the State Executive Council meeting in Abakaliki on Tuesday,   noted that the sanctions meted to the soldiers were mild going by the fact that they “did not behave like human beings.”

The governor, according to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Emma Anya, said, “We believe that 21 day imprisonment is not enough. The soldiers did    not behave like human beings and to be demoted is not enough

“I suggest to the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.  Gen.  Buratai that those soldiers should be sacked from the army and be prosecuted immediately.”

Umahi, who however thanked Burutai for taking the actions against the soldiers, directed the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Benard Odoh, to write a letter demanding the dismissal and prosecution of the soldiers.

He was also full of praises for his Anambra State counterpart, Willie Obiano, for his quick intervention in this matter.

The governor said, “I want to thank the Governor of Anambra State for his quick intervention in this matter.  I was very happy when he reacted immediately and rehabilitated the young man.  I also want to commend the Chief of Army Staff for the disciplinary action so far taken against those two soldiers. I thank the people of Anambra and Ebonyi who followed up on this matter.

“But we are going to take a picture of him (Oruku) and send to the COAS to demand the sacking and prosecution of those soldiers who carried such unprofessional act.

“I believe that the army has to be disciplined in their conduct.   We must insist that discipline is maintained in our society.

“If enough punishment is not meted on those two soldiers, they would still carry out the same act.”  

Umahi however, asked his Senior Special Adviser and Welfare Matters, Rev.Father Abraham Nwali to interact with Oruka, on ways the state government could properly rehabilitate him.

 He also ordered the release of N500,000  to  the brutalised man for the continuation of his   treatment and temporary upkeep.

Immediately the largesse was announced, Oruka, who wore army camouflage, adjusted his faded fez cap and gave a broad smile.

When asked what area the government could be of help to him, he expressed his desire to be in the Army.

			
			Post Views: 
			67