Share this on WhatsApp



In a bid to promote local foods and strengthen the domestic market, Heritage Bank Plc, has sponsored Season-3 of Bukas & Joints, hosted by Olisa Adibua, a respected media personalities in the African continent.
The launching of the screening of the Season-3 television food show in Lagos on Wednesday was a well-attended media event organised by Biola Alabi Media, the producers of the programme in collaboration with Heritage Bank.
The Season-3 was screened in Enugu in the South East and Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). In the South East, the local bukas that the production team visited include Ntachi-Osa Canteen, in the New Haven of Enugu, Emily Restaurant and New Berries Park while in Abuja they were Bean Bag located at Ramaya Royal Park on Ahmadu Bello Way, Iyo Oyo Kitchen based in Wuye and a Kilishi joint located in Area 1 Garden in Garki, Abuja.
Mr. Fela Ibidapo, Group Head, Corporate Communications of Heritage Bank said the bank was proud to be associated with the programme in order to promote local foods and strengthen the domestic market.
He hinted that since indigenous food is part of our heritage, the bank will continue to chart a path forward to increasing local food production and processing, while supporting job growth and healthy communities.
He assured that the bank would continue to support the programme and also others that relate to the Nigerian heritage.
Speaking on his experience on the new season, Adibua said the whole essence of the show was that through that the travels and discoveries exposed them to the lifestyles of the people they meet in different cities. “I love this season because I love the idea of meeting different people and going to different locations,” Adibua said, adding that they intend to go to more places in Nigeria and even outside Nigeria to showcase the African cuisines to the outside world like what like the way the Chinese and others had done.”
Also speaking Mrs. Biola Alabi, the Chief executive Officer of Biola Alabi Media commended Heritage Bank for supporting the programme right from the inception.
The show was put together by Biola Alabi Media (BAM), an African media company that develops and monetizes content for Pay TV, Free to Air (FTA) television channels, OTT (Over-The-Top) TV and VOD (Video-On-Demand).
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment