Share this on WhatsApp



Subscribers to the pay TV service, DStv, a brand of MultiChoice Nigeria, recently hosted to an interactive session in the central business district area of Abuja.
The session tagged Customer Forum, is a regular customer engagement initiative by MultiChoice Nigeria aimed at having face-to-face interactions with customers in a bid to deepen relationships. The forumprovides a platform for valuable discourse with customers through constructive feedback on their experiences from using various DStv services and products.
“We value every opportunity to meet with our customers to receive their feedback on our services”, said Caroline Oghuma, Public Relations Manager, MultiChoice Nigeria.
Oghuma acknowledged that with any business, there will be challenges but what is important is that the business finds ways to address and proffer solutions to them.
“We have heard our subscribers and will work on enhancing the quality of our services based on the issues raised today. At MultiChoice Nigeria, we are reshaping our business to improve our customers’ experience, whenever and wherever they engage with us”, said Oghuma.
Notable among the issues raised and addressed at the forum included, signal loss, subscription disconnection at due date, customer care services, content scheduling, program repeats and other hardware related issues.
ALSO SEE: BUA group, others race to buy 9Mobile
On the issue of subscription disconnection, subscribers were advised to make renewals on or before their due dates to avoid interruptions in their DStv services. “You can either pay through the Quickteller online platform or simply walk into any of our offices or dealer offices and make over-the-counter payments”, said Oghuma.
It was not all complaints however as some customers had some commendations to give the company. One of such commendations came from Victor Nwoyi. He said: “I would like to use this forum to appreciate DStv for its upgrades. As a business entity, it is not easy to thrive in a country like ours. For DStv to thrive this hyper-inflation and economic recession; DStv is not doing badly in Nigeria. God bless DStv”.
Also present at the forum were DStv dealers and sales representatives as well as representatives of the Consumer Protection Council (CPC) and National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), regulatory agencies of MultiChoice Nigeria.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment