Representative of Lagos State Governor & Deputy Governor, Dr. (Mrs) Oluranti Adebule (3rd right); Sole Administrator, Yaba LCDA, Hon. Bayo Adefuye (2nd right), Mr. Goke Osibodu (right); Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, Mr. Obafela Bank-Olemoh (3rd left); Managing Director, Guaranty Trust Bank, Mr. Segun Agbaje (2nd left) and Commissioner for Energy & Mineral, Mr. Olawale Oluwo (left) during the commissioning of the newly rehabilitated Herbert Macaulay Library, Yaba, Lagos, on Tuesday, July 11, 2017.
        Share this on WhatsApp

Commissions remodeled Herbert Macaulay Library in Yaba





Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, on Tuesday, ordered contractors working on the current construction of new model colleges across the state to speed up work and deliver on schedule.
The Governor spoke after an extensive inspection of work in the three new model colleges in Angus Memorial High School, Shomolu; Lagos City Senior College, Yaba; and Awori Senior College, Ojo.
Speaking through the State’s Deputy Governor, Mrs. Idiat Oluranti Adebule, who led other top government officials on the tour, Governor Ambode recalled that at the end of last year, the State Executive Council approved N10 billion for the rehabilitation of existing schools as well as the construction of eight new ones, including three model colleges to boost learning experience of students in the State.
He told the contractors working on the projects to speed up work and ensure that the jobs must be delivered on schedule.
Expressing disappointment over the slow pace of work on the new Model College in Awori, the Governor ordered the contractor to work round the clock to meet up with the delivery time.
“I must say I am not particularly happy with the pace of work (in Awori). We have been to other two project sites approved alongside this project and work has progressed pretty well in those places.
“The essence of our going round today is to see the level of work in the sites without relying solely on the reports on paper and obviously, we can see what they have done so far.

“I will be back again in the next one month to assess progress of work. I hope the contractor at Awori will improve on the pace of work because they have been mobilized. Having been mobilized, they should do what is expected of them,” he said.
Ambode, who also commissioned the ultra-modern Herbert Macaulay Library in Yaba, said the facility would go a long way to improve the reading culture in the State.
While thanking GTBank for partnering the State to remodel the facility, the Governor urged other corporate organisations to take a cue and invest in the educational sector.
“On behalf of Governor Ambode, I want to thank GTB for adopting the library and for the transformation work you have done. In the Ministry of Education, we appreciate the work the bank is doing particularly with the Principal Cup and today, we are here to commission the library.
“For us in the State, we believe strongly that by doing this, we are returning this library back to the general public. It has been a very historic library in the State and with the transformation that has been done, I have no doubt that this library will be assuming a landmark position where all kinds of people can come here to enjoy the benefit. We have the e-library and other facilities here,” she said.
The Governor also appreciated the Herbert Macaulay family for being part of the transformation, and assured that the State Government would continue to uphold the glory of the library.
Earlier, Managing Director of GTBank, Mr. Segun Agbaje said the decision to partner with the State Government to remodel the library under the Adopt-A-Library Initiative was to contribute its quota to enhance the educational sector.
He expressed optimism that with the facilities embedded in the library, residents of the State can gain access to a wide range of educational and historical materials to enhance their reading knowledge.
Among the features of the library include a room dedicated to historical artifacts-including some relating to the life and times of Herbert Macaulay, an innovation hub that will serve as a Coding Centre, a lounge/café area, a reading area with updated books and an e-library section, wheelchair accessible ramps and a finished courtyard area, among others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment