By BOLUWATIFE EZEKIEL OLALEYE
At least 400 worshippers daily have been rushing to an uncompleted church building in Ikorodu, Lagos State, to see the image of Jesus Christ speculated to have appeared on the wall of the uncompleted building.
National Daily gathered that the image believed by many people to be the face of Jesus, appeared on a wall in a church called the Holy Ghost Fire Apostolic Church, Ogunse Estate, Sagamu Road, Ikorodu, Lagos State.
Residents of the area, as well as church members, have been swarming the sight of the speculated mystery since an artisan raised alarm and called the attention of people to it.
Residents of the area have been seen going in and out of the building to view the image.
The uncompleted church building has a water stained wall that formed the image of a face which people visiting the scene have termed as Jesus’ face.
According to a report by National Daily, worshippers and residents of the area visited the church individually and in groups, praying and singing to God, while some transporters seized the opportunity to hike their fares.
ALSO SEE: Rain storm destroys over 100 houses in Katsina
The worshipers were seen dropping sachets and bottles of water by the wall, while others knelt down or touched the image praying aloud for miracles.
The construction work at the church has also been put on hold due to the number of pilgrims turning up to catch a glimpse of the image.
National Daily earlier reported a similar occurrence in Makurdi, Benue State.
Hundreds of people trooped to Saint Augustine’s Catholic Church which is located in the Nenger area of Makurdi following the “appearance” of an ‘image’ of Jesus.
The church which is situated behind Government Model College became a hub for Catholic and non-Catholic worshippers after bright image fell on the crucifix of Jesus.
The crucifix is described as a structure of Christ when he rose from death after he was crucified and buried and according to witnesses, it had on its head a crown, while the entire body was glittering, like precious stone.


			
			PV: 
			0