says the press can’t be muzzled

Few hours after two senators and journalists were attacked in Kaduna state by armed thugs and policemen allegedly sponsored by the Kaduna state government, the Governor of the State, Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai has condemned the attack.
While condemning the attack, he also ordered security measures to be stepped up at the state secretariat of the Nigerian Union of journalists in Kaduna.
The spokesperson, Samuel Aruwan, on Sunday pointed out that nobody would be allowed to hamper people’s freedom of expression.
In a statement, Aruwan noted that “the media must not be hindered from carrying out their constitutional and professional obligations, saying “the government of Kaduna State upholds the principles of free speech and respects the freedom of expression.
He added, “Having been briefed on the situation, the governor expressed sympathy with The NUJ and the persons that were harassed by the hoodlums.
“The Governor directed that the security agencies should investigate and take necessary action against the hoodlums. The Governor also directed security agencies to beef up security at the NUJ secretariat to protect journalists doing their duty.”
Confirming the attack, Senator Sani had said that the despicable attack on him was sponsored by the Kaduna state government.
ALSO SEE: Thugs attack Sani, others in Kaduna
Aruwan added that, “Politics should not be a desperate game. And desperation should not be visited on journalists or any citizen.”
He warned that the government of Kaduna State under El-Rufai would not tolerate any attempt to gag the press from carrying out its duties and innocent citizens from exercising their constitutional rights,” he added.
However, National Daily learnt that the incident took place at the Kaduna state Council of the Nigerian Union of Journalists secretariat while attempting to stop a press conference being addressed by Senators Shehu Sani and Othman Hunkuyi on the outcome of the recently held Congress of the All Progressive Congress.
It was gathered that the thugs were led by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) for Gabasawa division, one CSP Abdullahi.
A video camera man working with Liberty Television, was seriously wounded while his camera was destroyed as the thugs surged toward Senators Sani and Hunkuyi.
Senator Sani, representing Kaduna Central, who confirmed the development, alleged that the attack was orchestrated and sponsored against them by the Kaduna State Government.
Senator Sani has been having political battle with Gov El-Rufai prior to Sunday’s attack.

			
			Post Views: 
			54