Share this on WhatsApp




A cleric has lauded the recent Reintroduction of CRS and IRS back into the school curriculum, stating that this would help expose the children to godliness right from childhood and guard against social vices.
Prophetess Oyinkansola Ayedun spiritual head of Imisi Ogo Cherubim and Seraphim Church, made comment at the second anniversary  of Church held at   Mosan Okunola area of Lagos.

She noted that the knowledge of God if introduced  to the pupils in the early stage of live, help them to always retrace their step easily even they falter along the way as no  man is infallible.

The cleric revealed that the Holy Spirit is the mainstay of her ministry, urging all men of God to allow the Holy Spirit teach how to navigate the spiritual turf.

ALSO SEE: Returning CRK, IRK in schools’ curriculum imperative, says minister

The secretary of the church Mrs. Ewatomi Kehinde a committed member of the church stated that the impact of the ministry in the lives of member is immeasurable,going by the truthful prophecies that chart the course of a positive future for the faithfuls.

According to Ewatomi the call of God is the most important criterion as He would always give needed backup once He is involved in any given ministry commission.

“Here Imisi Ogo C&S church we enjoy the guidance of God through prophecies that are incontrovertible,the divine hand of God move mightily in our midst and are most grateful for that.

Commenting on having a woman taking charge over a church and biblical dichotomy,Ewatomi maintained the calling of the Lord is general,not gender specific.

“The call of God is to many but few are chosen and amidst the few it could a woman or man, so the person that called one into ministry is the most important factor, once it is God no problems “.

Also speaking at the gathering was the owner of ABIDAP Hotel and Suite, Mr. Tony Adenubi who also corroborates the statement of the church secretary with respect to the presence of God in the gathering.

He noted that God has been awesome in the church right from inception.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment