About 18 Senators are currently under investigation for alleged fraud involving N367.5bn by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has gathered.
According to a reliable source within the anti-graft agency, most of the cases predated the appointment of the present Acting Chairman of EFCC, Ibrahim Magu.
“The case files of all these 18 senators are already with us. Seven of them are already on trial. “But, certainly, 11 others will be prosecuted at the appropriate time. It may interest you that some agencies in a few international jurisdictions are interested in some of the cases against some of these senators,” the source said.
The source also stated that there are no waiver for all cases undergoing investigation, adding that the EFCC Acting Chair had no personal problems with any of the Senators as he inherited most of the cases.
National Daily gathered that 11 senators from the north are under probe for alleged fraud while seven Senators from the South are already on trial for alleged fraud ranging from money laundering, misappropriation, unexecuted contracts, diversion of public funds to campaigns, and others to the tune of N367.5billion. 
One or two senators (outside the list), National Daily also gathered, are under investigation for their alleged involvement in the N19billion and $86million London-Paris Club refund in which seven governors have been implicated.
ALSO SEE: Justice steps down from appeal panel on Patience Jonathan V EFCC case
An alleged N47billion embezzlement against a former governor now serving in the Senate, a senator is standing trial for alleged mismanagement of N1.2billion ecological funds; another allegedly diverted to other uses N1billion meant for the repair of a collapsed dam. 
The cases also include laundering of N40billion by a senator from the North-East; diversion of N3billion to campaign by a North-West senator; 149-count charge of mismanagement of N15billion by a senator from the north-central and the arraignment of a north-west senator for allegedly N52billion fraud. 
There are N9billion case involving a senator from the South-East; N2.1billion contract fraud by a member of the upper chamber from the south-south; N10.2billion fraud traced to a senator from the north-west and N2billion diverted funds credited to a senator from the north-central. 
Two aides of a senator, who is being probed for alleged illegal deduction of N3.5billion from the London-Paris Club refund have been quizzed. Three new senators from the North-Central, South-East and South-West have been under investigation for some infractions, including alleged stamp duty collection fraud. 
 

			
			Post Views: 
			124