Hon. Rita Orji a member of the Federal House of Representatives on Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) platform, representing Ajeromi Ifelodun federal constituency, has decried some local politicians in her constituency who allegedly play with lives of individuals.
The lawmaker expressed her worries over development at the flag off of reconstruction work on the dilapidated Otto Wharf link road on Saturday July 1st, as the APC led Lagos  State Government commends Julius Berger’s choice of the axis as his Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).
According to the lawmaker,she took up the case and forwarded a letter to the Julius Berger Construction Company headquarters in Abuja dated June 12,consequent upon which the harrow head of the company flew down to ascertain the state of the road and directed the Lagos end to do the needful to ameliorate the sufferings of the masses commuting in and around the axis.
“At least Otto Wharf will now be motorable,having been a deadly zone in time past,we record rape cases,accident,robbery different forms of crimes are being committed daily on the road,I passed by that road to locate my constituency office at 51 Kirikiri,but cannot drive through that place due to the deplorable state,how then do we access Ajeromi,Ifelodun?
“These are the two major roads that can bring you in when you take Otto Wharf for instance at a junction to your left it leads you to Ojo road from where you can access Tunnel Radiri,Amukoko via Badia- Ijora and eventually Western Avenue, so prolific and nice but under gridlock,the effect of which is on the Federal road, Apapa Oshodi Expressway.
“Otto Wharf is not a federal but state road,the situation became so bad and the people reported to their Representative asking for  assistance, so I swung into action,seeing that it was not reflected in the 2017 budget of the state.
“While the Governor is trying on some other areas,I felt I have to use my connection to effect a change and complement the government’s efforts in Ajeromi Ifelodun,that is what I have done.
ALSO SEE: Otto Wharf dilapidated road, respite on the way says Hon. Rita Orji
The major work of any government is to protect lives,I paid to get medical care for the girls raped there December last year,motorbikes were forcefully taken from their owners along that same axis,I have also had to pay for the removal of bullets from an okada riders who was shot by robbers.
However, the Lagos State Government has issued a statement commending construction giant Julius Berger Plc, “for choosing to rehabilitate the Otto-Wharf road within Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Council Development Area as a corporate social responsibility project.
“What Julius Berger has elected to do is commendable especially given the fact that they have not been awarded any contract on the road.  This CSR effort will at least make this Federal road passable pending the time that a comprehensive reconstruction of the road will be awarded,” the statement said.