By Boluwatife Ezekiel Olaleye
A MAN has spent $50,000 (£40,000) on plastic surgery to become an alien – and could soon have his genitalia removed.
Vinny Ohh, 22, from Los Angeles in California, has had over 110 procedures to transform into a ‘genderless’ extraterrestrial.
The make-up artist believes he’s neither male nor female and so his extreme look is a way to mirror how he feels inside.
He started with lip fillers at the age of 17, before having two rhinoplasties, multiple cheeks and brow bone fillers and more.
The part-time model also wears large blackened contact lenses, alien like talons and unusual hair dye colours.
Now he plans to fork out another $160,000 (£130,000) on surgery to have his genitalia, nipples and belly button removed.
Vinny said: ‘I want to be a sexless alien being, I want my outside to reflect how I feel on the inside. ‘The overall image I want to do is an alien. I want to be a hybrid, not male or female.
‘I’ve wanted to be sexless and genderless since I was 17, I’ve been going to doctors to see if it’s possible but had no luck. ‘I don’t want people to think I’m trying to change into a woman. I could live without sexual organs so why should I have a penis or a vagina.
ALSO SEE: Trump cancels transgender in US military
‘I don’t see why I shouldn’t have my genitals completely removed and have nothing down there. ‘So far, I’ve had $50,000 in skincare and procedures including two rhinoplasties, facial fillers in my lips, cheeks and brow bone all to look extra-terrestrial.
‘I do kind of look like a Martian, I have a really big head, no eyebrows and I’ve just been connecting with that. ‘When people ask me how I’d label myself, I tell them an “extra-terrestrial, hot mess, self-obsessed” it’s becoming my slogan.’
Vinny started cosmetic procedures after feeling like an outcast while growing up. He became an LGBT+ activist and feels like his look now represents his beliefs that ‘people shouldn’t be labelled.’
Vinny said: ‘Over the years, I’ve realised I’m not gay, bi, trans or any of these things, I just want to be me. ‘I do it to inspire the world in a certain way, I want people to stop labelling others or putting them in boxes.’
When out in public he draws much attention, which he believes is down to some of his unusual standout features and dress
Vinny added: ‘My large black contact lenses are a necessity, it’s like my pearl necklaces, I wear them to walk around everywhere I can.
‘They make my eyes look super massive, some people call it demonic but I think it looks beautiful like an animal.
‘Also, my make-up is focussed around looking sexless, I play with colour a lot, there’s no shade I wouldn’t experiment with.’ Vinny has found the public are split on his look, with some adoring his unusual appearance and others hurling abuse or trying to physically hurt him.
He said: ‘Some people absolutely love me see me as a celebration and give a lot of compliments.
‘I don’t look real and people love it. Some people have said they want their kids to be like me and that I’m an inspiration for children who don’t feel like they belong.
ALSO SEE: Caitlyn Jenner removes penis to complete transgender transition
‘Other times I’ve had shopping carts chucked at me or I’ve been considered a sexual object by men and woman, I’m used to not fitting in.
Vinny’s 110 surgeries to look like an alien so far:
35 whole body and face laser treatment
12 cheek fillers
2 brow fillers
15 lip fillers
10 fillers for random wrinkles
5 botox sessions
5 nose procedures
1 botox under eye
5 facial peels
20 cryo facial freezing
‘Even when I was 16, I was wearing full body suits and eight inch platforms going outside in the day, so it feels very normal to me.’ Vinny is set to appear on The Plastics of Hollywood, a show that will house real life plastic surgery addicts together in attempts to nurture their talent. He said:
‘My goal is to change everyone’s mind about human dolls.
‘I’m trying to wake people up.

			
			PV: 
			0