Share this on WhatsApp







Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, has called on Nigerians to disregard calls for the restructuring of the country, describing such as calls as mere political deceit.
The governor made the call yesterday in Lokoja, the state capital, during a meeting leaders of the organised labour.
He described those behind the agitation for the break up and restructuring of the country as real enemies of the country, stressing that Nigeria under President Muhammad Bulgari is on the path of restoring its lost glory.
He appealed to Nigerians to support the federal government in its determination to right the wrongs of the past, noting that the President had since assumption of office made practical efforts to unite every segment of the Nigerian federation.
According to him, “Every country has their unique challenges, but are making effort to overcome these challenges collectively irrespective of their cultural, religious or political differences.”
The Governor said Nigeria is a blessed country with the prospect of a great nation and urged the people to support the government by being patriotic and peaceful.
 He noted that his administration has since assumption of office in the state taken bold steps to improve critical infrastructures such as road,  rural electrification, water and quality health-care for the people of the state.
ALSO SEE: Senate adopts three resolutions on confirmation of appointments 
Governor Yahaya Bello the unity of the country as it stands to gain more when their people live and work together. Alhaji Bello said on his part, he would continue to advocate oneness among the different ethnic groups in the State as exemplified in governance of the State since assumption and urged  the people to watch out for sincere leaders who believe in the unity and oneness of the country and throw their support behind them. He expressed his administration’s commitment in taking the Kogi state to am enviable height hence the civil service reform for an accurate data base for planning.
He advised the people of the State to refrain from peddling rumours, saying the present administration’s activities could be accessed from the its website, kogistate.gov.ng.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment