Share this on WhatsApp

By Chioma Obinagwam

Leading commercial bank, Sterling Bank Plc and media broadcast corporation, DAAR Communication Plc, owners of Ray Power FM and AIT Television, have announced a strategic partnership aimed at keeping Nigeria clean and safe through mass awareness campaigns on environmental sustainability.

Objective of the strategic partnership is the amplification of Sterling Environment Makeover (STEM) message on sanitation through the Ray Power FM and AIT Television networks to influence uptake of sustainable living actions among Nigerians.

STEM is Sterling Bank’s corporate social responsibility initiative which promotes practices that protect the environment for the benefit of humanity.

Announcing the partnership, Chief Marketing Officer, Sterling Bank, Mr. Henry Bassey said the bank was delighted to have DAAR Communication Plc throw its weight behind STEM as a media partner.

He disclosed that leading corporations have also joined the programme as partners elevating it into a movement that will make Nigerians more conscious and committed to protecting the environment.

Bassey said, “Sterling Bank and DAAR Communication have come together because we share a common passion for the environment – to keep it clean, safe and preserved for the future generation. Through the Sterling Environmental Makeover programme, we hope to make a positive impact on our local communities across Nigeria using the extensive national and regional network of Raypower and AIT to influence sustainable living actions which reduces dirt and improves hygiene.”

ALSO SEE: NAPTIP takes human trafficking fight to London airports

“DAAR Communication has partnered with us to enlighten Nigerians on the importance of sanitation and how its absence fouls the environment exposing thousands of children and adults to disease,” he added.

He added that, the new improved STEM has a lot of exciting features which include a pre awareness campaign that will showcase choreographed dancers, cleaning strategic locations in Lagos whilst dancing to the special theme song produced by Olamide Badoo, who is Sterling Bank’s environmental Makeover ambassador. People who spot this dancers with selfies or pictures, stand the chance to win 50 free make over vouchers from the world’s leading cosmetics manufacturers to be redeemed at the event.

Commenting on the partnership, Chairman of DAAR Communication, Chief Raymond Paul Dokpesi Jnr., said he was impressed by the goals and potential of the Sterling Environmental Makeover programme and the creative ways in which the bank have been tackling and addressing issues of environmental cleanliness.

“DAAR Communication is proud to be associated with Sterling Bank’s environmental sustainability programme. We believe in the cause of the environment and the STEM programme aligns with our values at DAAR Communication. This, for us, is a collaboration of like minds and we will amplify this programme through our network to ensure that Nigerians in urban and rural areas receive this important message. Nigerians need to know that lack of sanitation and its consequence – which is environmental degradation – directly affects human health. We are committed to this partnership which seeks to improve the quality of life of Nigerians by spreading the positive message of keeping the environment safe and clean,” Chief Dokpesi Jnr., informs.

Also speaking, Company Secretary and Chief Legal Counsel, Sterling Bank, Mrs. Justina Lewa, expressed optimism that the strategic partnership with DAAR Communication will ensure that Nigerians take the need for a clean and safe environment to heart.

Mrs. Lewa said, “Our partnership with DAAR Communication is indeed a milestone in the eight year history of STEM. Before now, STEM was driven largely by employees with support from the bank. But it is now being taken to the next level with DAAR Communication and other corporates joining to participate in it.”

Launched eight years ago as a cleaning exercise promoting sanitation and hygiene, STEM is evolving into a national movement championing the cause of the environment. It presently covers public enlightenment campaigns, partnership with waste management agencies in 14 states, tree planting to combat desertification in parts of Northern Nigeria and an annual national cleaning exercise. Sterling Bank has committed more than N500 million to the programme
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment