By NWADIKE UGOCHUKWU, Port Harcourt
Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike of Rivers State has admonished that it is not yet uhuru for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) after the victory at the Supreme Court last week. He was of the view that the party must be at alert in the entire process of reconciliation and rebuild the structures.
The governor cautioned that as the PDP embarks on reconciliation after the Supreme Court Judgment, it will be done with vigilance.
The governor further stated that the Supreme Court Judgment saved Nigeria, adding that there is the need to thank God for the sustenance of multi-party democracy.
Speaking at the Inter-denominational Special Thanksgiving Service for the PDP Victory at the Supreme Court at the Rivers State Ecumenical Centre, Port Harcourt, on Sunday, Governor Wike said: “While we are reconciling, we must be vigilant. Nobody will take me unawares. Satan will never sleep. Satan will always find ways to cause havoc.
“Sheriff is an agent of the APC.  Woe betide any person who is a mole of the deadly party.”
He expressed gratitude to God for giving PDP leaders the wisdom to identify that with the emergence of Sheriff the Party was heading for doom and had to retrace its steps.
The governor said that Nigerians received the Supreme Court Judgment with joy because the future of Nigeria rests with the PDP.
ALSO SEE: Lagos PDP congratulates Makarfi
He said that the ruling, APC after winning elections, resorted to excuses and blame game instead of fulfilling the promises they made to Nigerians.
“Two years after the mandate, what is the situation? Excuses and blames without delivery. Look at how individuals took it upon themselves to destroy the party that gave them life.
“PDP is the only party that is a household name in Nigeria.  There is no unit in the country without a member of the PDP “.
The governor said that going forward Rivers State must get return on her contributions to the PDP.
“As we help you, you help us. If you don’t help us, we won’t help you again. All of us must rise from our unit, ward and local government area to mobilise people”.
The governor canvassed total loyalty to the PDP, saying that the party is supreme. According to him, in reconstituting the State Executive Council, only very loyal and committed former commissioners will be re-appointed.
“God saved PDP because of Rivers State.  We don’t have plan B. Every other state had plan B. Our enemies will be put to shame from time to time. Rivers State is the strongest PDP State”, he said.
The thanksgiving service attracted PDP leaders from the 23 Local Government Areas of the state.
Intercessory prayers were said for Nigeria, Rivers State, Governor Wike and the stability of the PDP.

			
			Post Views: 
			101