By Odunewu Segun
The family of late Dike Chinedu Paul, a comedian who was lynched in the early hours of Sunday, July 2nd, 2017 by a Vigilante group in Odogunyan area of Ikorodu have described his death as unfortunate, calling on the Lagos State Government to ensure proper training of the Neigbourhood Safety Corps.
Speaking at a joint conference held at the UNIC Foundation building in Igando, by the family and Joint Professionals Training & Support Int’l (JPTS), the school he attended as a level 200 student, Chinedu was described as a go-getter who radiates love and care anywhere he goes.
Narrating the unfortunate incident, Dike Elizabeth, Chinedu sister said her brother was innocent. She said the late comedian was in company of Shola, a mechanic, who he had called to help fix his vehicle before they met their unfortunate death in their hands of the mobs.
“His car broke down, and the chain they found in the CRV was meant for towing his vehicle, but the vigilante accused them of being members of Badoo gang. They didn’t allow them to even identify themselves before pouncing on them”
“I urge government to please seek professional touch when it comes to security in Nigeria,” she said.
ALSO SEE: Badoo Boys: How money, security lapses aided gruesome killings
Fiancée of the late Chinedu, Esther Demenong said he was Killed at Odogunyan not far from his home. “I got a call around 2 am informing me about the development. He was not a bad person, but rather a victim of circumstances. I will advise the government to engage professional hands to handle security in the area. At least if he was asked to identify himself such would not have been his fate”.
A classmate of Chinedu’s, Joy Okafor described the late comedian as a very social person who was always fun to be with. “There has never been a dull moment with Chinedu especially in class, whenever any lecturer comes into the class and Chinedu was not in class, they always asked for him.”
Joy, who also attend Harvest Place Church International Ministry Maryland with the deceased said Chinedu was a good Christian who performed in every youth programmes in the Church.
The Director JPTS Dr. Christopher  Imumolen, also President and founder UNIC(Unique Empowerment & Employment Initiative)  FOUNDATION from where Chinedu(a.k.a Think twice) got a scholarship, lamented the dastardly killing of the young man with.
According to Imumolen, extra judicial killing is tantamount to murder, saying it was not the best solution as innocent people have perished through such victimization.
“Government should try and sanitize our society for the innocent not to suffer such fate again. It is quite sad that we are gathering to talk about the demise of one of our student Chinedu Paul, he was a young vibrant man whose life was cut short so violently.”

			
			Post Views: 
			41