L-R: Director, Public Enlightenment & Community Relation, Ministry of Information & Strategy, Mr. Toyin Awosika; Special Adviser to the Governor on Community & Communications, Mr. Kehinde Bamigbetan; Special Assistant to the Governor on Community Affairs, Alhaji Tajudeen Quadri and Director, Community Development Department, Ministry of Local Government & Community Affairs, Mrs. Sherifat Ewumi-Dosunmu during a press conference on the official launching of TV programme: Lagos Community Update, at the Conference room of the Ministry of Local Government & Community Affairs, Alausa, Ikeja, on Monday, July 17, 2017
        Share this on WhatsApp

Seeks active participation of CDCs, CDAs, others




The Lagos State Government on Monday unveiled a new television programme tagged ‘Lagos Community Updates’ to advance development at the grassroots and engender active participation of the people at the local level in governance.
Speaking at the unveiling held at the State Secretariat, Alausa, Special Adviser to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on Communities and Communications, Kehinde Bamigbetan, said the programme, which is billed to commence next Monday, would serve as a veritable platform for people at the grassroots to get first-hand information about activities of government, and also serve as a feedback mechanism for government to know the plight of the people.
He said the programme would also assist government and the private sector to know about the activities of Community Development Associations (CDAs) and Community Development Committees (CDCs) who have initiated projects on their own but require intervention to complete such projects.
According to Bamigbetan, “The programme is first to bring to public limelight the activities of CDAs in terms of their initiatives for self-help and the way they are taking ownership of the projects and programmes of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode because the Governor has expressed his desire to partner with CDAs and CDCs in areas where they require support and collaboration.
“By developing a medium that is able to do this, we enable the government to also have first-hand-knowledge of the efforts of the communities, and therefore enable government and the private sector to intervene. Many corporate organisations have funds for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects but they do not know where to channel those funds and by bringing up these communities who have initiated projects on their own but require assistance to complete the projects, we allow the private sector to have an inkling into where they can direct their resources in terms of CSR.
“Through the programme, we will also let the government know that the job they have been doing also requires extra efforts because we will bring to the government the people who have initiated projects and want to partner with the government,” he said.
He said aside the showing of the programme on television, all the social media platforms have also been activated to promote the programme with the view to making the people aware of its existence.
He, however, urged all CDAs and CDCs in the State as well as the generality of the people to take ownership and full advantage of the initiative, and assist government in scaling up development, especially at the grassroots.
ALSO SEE: Constitutional review: Ambode calls for closure of federal land registry in Lagos
On his part, the State’s Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Steve Ayorinde said the State Government was delighted to come up with the programme, which he said, would go round all the Local Government Areas and Local Council Development Areas in the State to showcase the activities of government and equally facilitate feedback.
Also, Chairman of Ojokoro CDC, Alhaji Amusat Azeez said it was gratifying that a programme which would help to highlight the plight of the people at the local level was coming into fruition in the State, just as he expressed optimism that the programme would help the State Government to alleviate the sufferings of the people.
“Governor Ambode is a Governor of the people who is always willing to help the people and I am sure when he sees the plight of the people through this programme, he will adequately respond in the interest of the people,” Azeez said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment