Share this on WhatsApp

The Nigerian Army in Lagos on Thursday said it had improved on the security architecture of its barracks residents, adding that criminal acts have been reduced to the barest minimum due to regular power supply.

The 9 Brigade Commander, Brig.-Gen. Elias Attu disclosed this while receiving the wife of the 81 Division’s General Officer Commanding (GOC), Mrs Rose Dauke to the command headquarters, Ikeja.

Mrs Dauke, who is the President of the Nigerian Army Officers Wives Association (NAOWA), 81 Division chapter..

”We have not had any case of vandalism, rape or theft and we ascribe all the glory to God and we are trying to do everything possible to ensure our women and children sleep safely,” he said.




Dauke who attributed inadequate power supply as one of the challenges facing the barracks said the command had been doing everything possible to improve on that.




ALSO SEE: Army commissions Muhammadu Buhari Cantonment in Giri


”We try our best in the command to ensure there is frequent power supply most especially at night because we know our women and children need it to sleep at nights.

”If there is a power problem, I try to stay on their neck for it to be fixed because frequent power supply also reduces crime most especially at night,” he added.

The commander who stressed that the army was here to serve humanity, added that the command always supported the widows at the brigade level.

Attu expressed appreciation for the visit and promised to continue his best in ensuring a good environment for the women and children in the barracks.

The wife of the GOC, who expressed pleasure to be in the command, said the visit was to familiarize with the formations and units within the division.

”Our noble association is a nongovernmental is saddled with the responsibility of developing the mental and social capability of our targeted audience.

”This has endeared us to be totally committed in uplifting the less privileged in our society, most especially the barrack community,” the president said.

The wife of the brigade commander, Mrs Milli Attu, appreciated the president’s visit, her hardwork and commitment to issues regarding NAOWA.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment