Share this on WhatsApp







By ALEX OLISE

Host communities in Delta State had urged Gov Ifeanyi Okowa to appeal to the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris to stop Police operatives from invading communities  within Delta to arrest residents who fought back to stop the illegal activities of Fulani herdsmen who had been unleashing terror in their land.







Most of the towns and villages within Ndokwa West, Ndokwa East and Ukwuani, as well as Isoko Local Councils had come under heavy attacks in recent times by the notorious herdsmen who had over the years killed no fewer than 150 innocent citizens of the state, destroying their farmland and raping women in their farms.

The act reached a crescendo when the youths of each local government decided to mobilize and engage the Fulani Herdsmen in gun encounter resulting to several casualties from both sides.

But National Daily learnt that when the herdsmen discovered that the forces against them is becoming higher having lost most of their marksmen and cows in the gun encounter they started fleeing the state to other parts of Edo, Ondo and other nearby states.

It was gathered by National Daily, that the sponsors of the attackers on receiving the report that their foot soldiers had met stiff resistance in parts of Ndokwa West and other Delta Local Councils including Ughelli, Ijaw, Ika and Oshimili. They went ahead to give misinformation to the Police that their men had been attacked.

This National Daily learnt prompted the Police to arrest scores of youths in towns like Ogume in Ndokwa West and took them to Abuja for interrogation. But deep investigation by National Daily, revealed that few years ago the Fulani Herdsmen had attacked the same Ogume community, killing 10 young men inside the farm. That single incident was described as a war by some residents who spoke to National Daily at the weekend.

ALSO SEE: How Fulani Herdsmen move arms to target zones

A recent incident occurred in Ossisa, a community in Ndokwa East, where the Fulani Herdsmen attacked and killed no fewer than 13 men destroying their farmland.

In all this attack none of the Fulani Herdsmen was arrested neither their sponsor who had their base virtually in all host communities across South-South, South-East, South-West and the Middle belt region where they have carried out deadly attacks in recent times.

It has now been uncovered that the entire communities in South-South and South-East as well as Yoruba communities of the South-West have vowed to use every means at their disposal to chase the Fulani Herdsmen out of their region.

National Daily, learnt that the Fulani Herdsmen are responsible for all major kidnap cases and other heinous crimes across Nigeria.

Hence communities affected in the recent attacks have urged government to release their kinsmen to avert further stiff reaction from the oil rich state that will lead to further economic crisis in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment