By NWADIKE UGOCHUKWU, Port Harcourt
The Wife of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, Justice Eberechi Suzzette Nyesom-Wike, has called on all levels of government from the local to the federal government to establish Special Trust Funds to ensure the welfare and social security of the wives of military officers in the Nigerian Armed Forces.
Speaking at the Government House, Port Harcourt, when she received the leadership of the Nigerian Army Officers Wives Association (NAOWA), Justice Nyesom-Wike said that such Trust Fund will encourage the armed forces personnel to serve the country with greater commitment.
She stated that the Trust Fund will give families of military personnel the confidence that they will not be abandoned, no matter the situation they find themselves.
“I want to use this as an opportunity to call on governments at all levels to establish a Special Trust Fund for the wives of officers and members of the Nigerian Armed Forces.
“It is important because it will give them hope. They will all know that they have somewhere to draw from, especially when things are difficult, “Justice Nyesom-Wike declared.
The Governor’s Wife argued that in an incident that a husband dies in active service should not be an end to livelihood of the woman and the family.
ALSO SEE: Alatia: The abandoned and forgotten community in Imo
She emphasized that the Wike administration remains committed to the welfare of security personnel serving in Rivers State.
Justice Nyesom-Wike described women as special and hardworking, noting that being wives of officers of senior personnel of the Nigerian Armed Forces makes their role challenging.
She attributed the peace being enjoyed​in Rivers State to the wives of the security personnel whose efforts in keeping their homes have helped the security officers to remain focused in discharging their duties.
She assured the leadership of NAOWA of the 6 Division that she will partner with them to actualize their objectives.  She added she will present their requests to the Rivers State Governor for his support.
Earlier, the Maiden President of NAOWA of the 6 Division and Wife of the General Officer Commanding 6 Division, Mrs. Grace Udoh, praised Governor Wike for transforming the state through the execution of numerous development projects
She revealed that NAOWA runs programmes that are designed to promote the welfare of children, women and youths.

			
			Post Views: 
			143