By Odunewu Segun
The Ayetoro-Gbede Development Association in Ijumu local government area of Kogi State has expressed its support for Senator Dino melaye, calling on those behind his recall process to stop forthwith or face the wrath of the masses.
The group in a statement signed by both the National President, S.O Arowsafe and National Secretary, Elder J.O Olorunyomi described the attempt as fraudulent, futile and uncalled for. “The attempt is not only a slap on the face of the entire community but on the entire people of the West Senatorial District of Kogi in general,” the statement said.
“We are amazed that our son who is adjudged to be the best Senator of the year 2016 and with the highest number of motions raised on the floor of the house in the history of Nigeria National Assembly will be the person to be faced with a recall.”
The group said senator Melaye has done nothing wrong, and therefore shouldn’t be threatened with recall, “Ayetor-Gbede community will continue to align with him in the struggle to liberate the suffering masses of the state who have been crying to God for years to alleviate their position,” the group said.
It however blamed the state government for performing below expectations despite the general support it got when coming power. The group said the quality of life of the people is being eroded by non-payment of their legitimate wages.
The group demanded that the state government should focus on delivering the dividends of democracy to the entire people of Kogi state, who at the moment are disappointed at the state of things in the state.
“We strongly appeal to all powers that be, at whatever level to de-escalate the tension in the West senatorial District of Kogi State over the recall saga and divert the meagre resources of the people to what will raise the bar of their quality of life.”
Embattled Senator Melaye, through its counsel, Mike Ozakhome (SAN) last month launched a judicial bid to save his seat, a day after electoral officials notified him of an ongoing exercise to recall.
The lawmaker prayed the court to grant an urgent injunction prohibiting the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, from going ahead with his recall as authorised by Section 69 of the Constitution.
ALSO SEE: Dino Melaye: No going back on recall process, INEC insists
He said the signatures collated by those seeking his recall were fictitious as they allegedly contained those of dead people, and, as such, any action taken by INEC over the exercise should be voided.
In an unprecedented exercise, voters in Kogi West Senatorial District signed a petition for Mr. Melaye’s recall on June 10.

			
			Post Views: 
			49