Share this on WhatsApp
In a statement signed by JAMB’s Head of Public Relations, Fabian Benjamin, in Abuja on Sunday, the agency said it has so far remitted more than N5 billion to government.

That is  the highest ever in the 40 years of the exam board operations.

He said this while warning the exam candidates against multiple registration, even though it’s at a cost to the students seeking admission.

“The Board is not interested in the candidates’ money as is being insinuated by certain group who suggested to the Board that such registration will enhance the revenue base of the Board.

“No, we are more interested in the credibility of the examination and not the money, if money is our concern we will not be returning over five billion naira to the Federal Government coffers.’’

He said that the money was saved through the transparent and judicious use of resources.

Benjamin  also urged candidates to disregard all information on admission, especially cut-off marks being circulated on the net.

According to him, the Board has established new method of admission in line with its mandate to ensure fairness irrespective of tribe and religion and it is determined to meet the expectations of Nigerians.

No cut-off mark has been arrived at as this can only be done at a policy meeting, which is at the moment yet to be conveyed.

ALSO SEE: 62,140 candidates to retake UTME as JAMB blacklists 48 CBT centres

“Do not allow yourselves to be defrauded by internet fraudsters, the policy meeting would commence the 2017 admission with all mode, process and acceptable conditions for admission.

“The Prof. Oloyede led management is working to ensure transparent, acceptable and fair admission process.

He said the board has designed software known as Central Admissions Processing System (CAPS), where human interference will be completely removed, to promote credibility.

“The admission criteria would be keyed into the software and it will select candidates blindly according to the institutions requirement without any primordial consideration.”

This is the first time in recent memory the board will make open its revenue generated.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment