Share this on WhatsApp



The Senate on Wednesday asked the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola (SAN) to resign his appointment if he was overwhelmed by the volume of work at his ministry.
Chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, Senator Danjuma Goje, raised a point of order at the plenary.
He said, “He is not a governor (anymore) and this National Assembly is not Lagos State House of Assembly. This is an Assembly composed of very patriotic Nigerians, very experienced Nigerians; many had done his job; many were governors before him.”
President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, interrupted Goje, saying, “Senator Oluremi Tinubu (Lagos Central), you are not paying attention to this matter.”
Goje continued, “Fashola should know that he is dealing with the National Assembly of Nigeria, not of Lagos. If the job is too much for him – the ministry is too big; it comprises three ministries, which are works, housing and power; if he cannot adjust, then he should do the honourable thing. He should do the needful.
ALSO SEE: Senate adopts three resolutions on confirmation of appointments 
“No amount of blackmail by him; no amount of propaganda by him or his surrogates will stop this National Assembly from discharging its duties in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. We have sworn to uphold and protect this Constitution, and this we will do to the end of this Assembly.
“For now, I will cease fire and watch to see how the House will handle him. If he is well handled there, we will leave him with them, but if we are not satisfied and they pass him to us, then, we will take him over.”
Saraki, in his remarks, said the Senate would see how the House of Representatives would handle the matter before taking further action.
“I am happy that the House of Representatives are also taking up this issue. It is a matter that we must be responsible, especially those at the (executive) cabinet to look at issues from a national point of view in the interest of all Nigerians.
“We will definitely wait for the outcome of his appearance before the House of Representatives before further contributions. But we have taken your comment, Chairman of Appropriations,” he said. 
The Senate had earlier accused the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola (SAN), of misleading the public and blackmailing it over the manipulations made by the lawmakers in the 2017 Appropriation Act.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment