Governors from the southwesrtern region of Nigeria have agreed to set up a Joint Task Force to combat the illicit activities of herdsmen and kidnapping in the region.

They frowned at a situation where school children have been at the mercy of kidnappers; and the rising waves of cultism and other security threats to lives and properties in the region.

The governors who met in Abeokuta on Monday,, expressed the determination to enunciate regional integration plan, in key sectors of agriculture, economy and security that would ultimately benefit Yoruba nation.

The governors of states that attended the meeting include Mr Akinwunmi Ambode (Lagos), Senator Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola (Osun), Senator Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo), Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) and Mr Ayodele Fayose (Ekiti).

National Daily learnt that the meeting was convened at the instance of Development Agenda for Western Nigeria, (DAWN), Commission.

As a way forward at tackling the menace of herdsmen, the governors acknowledged the Ekiti state government’s template in dealing with the activities of herdsmen which has been able to address the incessant killings by cattle rearers.

Among other prescriptions by the Ekiti State anti-grazing law, National Daily learnt that the law stipulates that grazing must be from 7am to 6pm on a daily basis and that the government would allot portions of land to each local government area in that regard.

The law further recommends that “Anyone caught grazing on portions of land or any farmlands not allotted by government shall be apprehended and made to face the law.

“Any herdsman caught with firearms and any weapon whatsoever during grazing shall be charged with terrorism.

ALSO SEE: Fulani community sues FG, Taraba for $200m in damages

It was further gathered that one critical issue that the Joint Task Force will address include blocking all the channels to the various creeks that has formed a veritable hub through which militants move captives to their various camps.

Economically, the governors agreed that the competitive advantage of constituent states will be harnessed for sustaining regional interest and integration.

This, they added, there should be a blueprint that DAWN should develop a revenue optimisation strategy for constituents states of the region; improve food security of the region and convey a regional agriculture summit that will hold in Ibadan.

National Daily gathered that the governors lamented that the splitting of the Old Western Nigeria into states by the military government during the era of states creation.

They observed that such practice  had robbed the states of oneness, which had ultimately hampered socio – economic development of the region.

They cautioned the Yorubas for making themselves vulnerable instruments for divisive political interest and selfish political gains reiterating that instead of seeing themselves as an entity of the Yoruba people, they rather see themselves as a people of one state or the other.

Emphasising the need for more cohesiveness, Gov Rauf Aregbesola, observed that the era of Old Western Nigeria brought greater achievements than when it started operating as individual states today.

“If we look critically at the achievements we had as a singular state of Western Region, we must be mindful of the fact that as a singular state then, we achieved more then than now when we are divided into six states.”

The Governors unanimously declared zero tolerance for crime and criminality in the region henceforth emphasising that the artificial boundaries, religion and political affiliation would no longer constitute barrier to the region’s development.

As a way of improving the economy of the region, the governors mandated the DAWN Commission to develop a 25-year Western Nigeria Development Master Plan, while all the states in the regions were encouraged to significantly improve bi-lateral and multi-lateral cooperation to foster regional development.

			
			Post Views: 
			152