Share this on WhatsApp



By ODIMMEGWA JOHNPETER, Abuja
The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has disclosed the plan of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to supply oxygen to government hospitals in Adamawa State. He made the disclosure while commissioning the new Liquid Oxygen (LOX) plant at the NAF Base in Yola. The idea of building the LOX plant was mooted in 2016 by Air Marshal Abubakar to solve the perennial difficulty being experienced in supplying LOX for use by NAF fighter pilots, who require it especially for high altitude operations. The plant in Yola has the capacity to produce liquid and gaseous oxygen, in addition to nitrogen, another gas needed for the maintenance of aircraft.
Speaking at the commissioning ceremony, the CAS stated that the LOX plant had the capacity to produce 1,000 litres of oxygen every 8 hours, which is in excess of the NAF’s requirements for its air operations and for use in its medical centres across the nation. Accordingly, the CAS has directed appropriate officials to work out the modality for the supply of the excess oxygen to government hospitals in Adamawa State, including the Federal Medical Centre Yola. Air Marshal Abubakar seized the opportunity to appreciate the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration, without which the project would not have become a reality.
ALSO SEE: Airforce bombs Boko Haram ammunition depot in Sambisa Forest
In his remarks, the Guest of Honour at the occasion, His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Adamawa State, Senator Umaru Jibrilla Bindo, expressed joy at the siting of the project in the State. He was also full of praises for Air Marshal Abubakar, who according to him had added a lot of value to the Adamawa society. Senator Bindo further stated that he was in awe of the legacy being left by the CAS through the numerous projects being commissioned to enhance the operational capability of the NAF.
The Lamido of Adamawa, His Royal Highness, Dr. Muhammadu Barkindo Aliyu Musadafa, as well as heads of military and paramilitary/security agencies in Adamawa State, also witnessed the ceremony. The LOX plant has already commenced production.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment