Arrest deputy unit commander in Abuja

By MERCY BEN-KALIO
FCT Police Command in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, have tightened security around the seat of power and consolidating its intelligence network. This led to the tracking and arrest of the deputy unit commander of the terrorist Islamist group, Boko Haram, Seth Yakubu, 20 years, at Gwako Village in Abuja on Sunday.
Seth Yakubu was identified to have come from Obi Local Government Area, Nasarawa State.
National Daily gathered that he was arrested t about 11.30am after Police received a tip-off on his suspicious behaviour from people around him.
ALSO SEE: Military kills Boko Haram suicide bomber at Dala
The FCT Commissioner of Police, Musa Kimo, was gathered to have disclosed that the suspect, while confessing to his membership of Boko Haram, revealed that he escaped to the village from Sambisa Forest after their hideout was dislodged by the Nigeria Air Force through a major air-strike a week ago .Additionally, he confessed that he left Maiduguri on Friday, July 21 and arrived Gwako village on Saturday, July 22 by 10.00pm to conceal his identity as well as seek refuge.
It was said that a man lured the suspect Into the Boko Haram terrorist group in order to fulfil the promise of an automatic employment into the Nigerian Army only to end up with the sect group. He disclosed that he was given a form to fill, after which he filled it, he would be taken to an unknown place to receive training with the others.
Seth Yakubu admitted to have participated actively in several deadly attacks launched by the terrorists against innocent citizens, aside being the second in command in his unit. The suspect was not allowed to be photographed by photo-journalists by the police.
The FCT Police Commissioner has enjoined residents of the FCT and environs to be vigilant and report any strange and suspicious person or activities to the police.
He said:
The command wishes to also advise community leaders to guard against habouring strangers, especially, those whose mission to the community is not clear.
FCT residents were counseled that on the identification of any strange face in their community, they should contact the nearest police formation or the FCT Police Command through emergency helplines-lines – 08032003913, 08061581938, 07057337653 and 08028940883.


			
			Post Views: 
			121