Share this on WhatsApp



Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has approved Etisalat Nigeria’s name change after its Middle East parent pulled out following regulatory intervention to save the local company from collapse due to debt, according to 9Mobile.
NCC has been notified of the new name, 9mobile, the company said, adding that Etisalat Nigeria had started the process of rebranding. .
According to Boye Olusanya, chief executive officer, 9mobile, ‘our new trading name, 9mobile represents our 0809ja heritage, our 9ja-centricity, and our evolution over 9 years of operations in Nigeria. Although our trading name has changed, we remain true to the same values on which our company was built.’
“A strong and resilient Nigerian spirit continues to reside in us, uniting us with you our subscribers and we are confident that you will cotinue to believe in our new brand, which strongly reflects our innate creativity and youthfulness.”
He stated that, the rebrand is a testament to their dynamism, responsiveness and agility as a business, while we leverage the power of technology to deliver innovative products and services that meet your needs. Our confidence in our ability to continue to make this happen is bolstered by the sheer determination, commitment and passion of our people to do more; and continue delivering excellent service.
In order to ensure the change of name is delivered efficiently and responsibly, we will take a measured approach to the migration to the new brand over the next few months. Therefore as we go through this transition, our esteemed subscribers we ask for your patience and reaffirm our commitment to remain a listening brand. We will continue to innovate, support, and empower you to do more – whether as an individual or a business.
ALSO SEE: Etisalat phases out old name, now 9Mobile
To our business partners, your unwavering belief in the strength of our brand inspires us to do more. We will remain committed to working together and exploring possibilities to achieve our mutual goals; and to our stakeholders, we thank you for your abiding faith in us.  We will ensure that our core values of Innovation, Customer-centricity, and superior Quality of Service remain the pillars upon which we operate.
9Mobile formerly Etisalat Nigeria had been in talks with its lenders to restructure a $1.2 billion debt after it missed repayments but the discussions failed to produce a deal, forcing the banks to step in.
UAE’s Etisalat terminated its management agreement with its Nigerian business in June and gave it three weeks to phase out the brand after it had to surrender its 45 percent stake to a trustee because of the debt crisis.
Under Nigeria’s telecoms law, the NCC has to approve a transfer of telecoms licences or any new investor in a telecoms company with more than 10 percent of the shares.
Etisalat Nigeria’s lenders have now taken control and appointed a new team to manage the company with a focus on getting it back to profitability while working to eventually raise new capital.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment