Share this on WhatsApp

The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has 24,304kg of assorted forfeited narcotic drugs seized within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja.



The exercise is sequel to two destruction orders signed by Honourable Justice Nnamdi Dimgba and Honourable Justice A. Abdulkafarati of the Federal High Court in Abuja. The exhibits with an estimated street value of 250million naira were jointly set ablaze by local and international collaborators at Lungi barracks along Aso drive in Abuja.

Chairman of the anti-narcotic Agency, Muhammad Mustapha Abdallah who described the destruction as symbolic and strategic both to the Agency and drug control policies of the government, stressed that seized drugs remain a threat until they are destroyed. “Public destruction of drugs is the climax of operational activities which begin with tracking of suspected drug merchants, drug exhibits, prosecution of drug dealers and forfeiture of the drugs.Until drugs are completely destroyed they remain a threat to societal peace” Abdallah said.

The drugs are products of concluded drug cases by the FCT command in the past two years, precisely June 2015 to date. The breakdown of the drugs are as follows; cannabis 24,278.33kg, psychotropic substances 23.68kg, cocaine 1.6256kg, heroin 0.1084kg and amphetamines 0.1082kg.   FCT Minister, Honourable Muhammad Musa Bello who was the Special Guest of Honour commended the NDLEA for the seized drugs and also urged the Agency to extend the war on drugs to the grass root and motor parks.

The Minister who was represented by the Chairman, Abuja Municipal Council, Honourable Abdullahi Adamu said, “I appreciate the role of the Agency in eliminating drugs from the FCT. Let me urge the NDLEA to intensify efforts by taking the drug war to the grass root and motor parks.

The FCT administration will continue to support the fight against drug trafficking in our collective search for a healthy society”.  The Ona of Abaji and Chairman Council of traditional rulers in the FCT, Alhaji Adamu Baba Yunusa called on youths to stay away from drug trafficking, drug abuse and other acts that are injurious to the society. “I want youths to stay away from drug abuse and be useful to themselves and the society.

ALSO SEE: NDLEA seized 16000 tones of hard drug in Lagos last year

The NDLEA should also take the drug enlightenment to communities as well and also teach drug education in schools” the royal father advised.

Commander of the NDLEA,in Abuja Mrs. Obijuru Chinyere, in her welcome remarks said that the command will step up campaign programmes in places schools, workplaces, religious and worship centres to address the problem of drug abuse within Abuja.

NDLEA Chairman added that the volume of the seized drugs reflects the high demand for drugs within the FCT, which is alarming. “There is a growing obsession of youths with the use of psychotropic substances particularly cough syrups with Codein, Tramadol as well as unconventional substances like gasoline, tippex, rubber solution, lizard waste, pit latrine fume, and local concoctions such as goskolo and zakami which require urgent attention” the NDLEA boss added.

The agency reassured members of the public that the war against drugs should be intensified. According to the Chairman, “we need to ensure that drug traffickers run out of market. We must reinvigorate our anti-drug campaign efforts through law enforcement and public sensitization on the effects of drugs on health, security and development”.

Other stakeholders present at the event were representatives from the National Assembly, members of the diplomatic community, military and paramilitary agencies among others
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment