Share this on WhatsApp

teenagers rescued by RRS in Lagos




By OKOSUN DENNIS
Two teenagers, who ran away from their parents in Abuja to Lagos because of the poverty stricken nature of their parents have been rescued by men of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of the Lagos State Police Command.
The teenagers, identified as Chidubem Amaechi, 13, and Chinedu Onyebuchi, 13, were rescued on Monday morning after alighting from an Abuja bus at Ojodu-Berger, Lagos.
National Daily learnt that the teenagers were sighted by the police officers wandering around Ojodu-Berger before they were invited for questioning.
However, it was discovered that the children had lied to the officers during interrogations that they were kidnapped and blindfolded before they were driven to Lagos by their abductors.
They feigned that they had escaped from their abductors while they (the abductors) were sleeping under the bridge before Ogun-Lagos long bridge.
Not satisfied with their explanation, the officer prodded and launched an investigation into their kidnapping.
It was further learnt while the investigations were on, officers suspected the children were lying about the kidnapping story.
Amazingly, it was discovered that their parents, who have been looking for the boys in Abuja since Sunday, May 14, 2017, were shocked when contacted that their children were in custody of Rapid Response Squad, Lagos.
National Daily gathered that after three days of questioning Chidubem Amaechi, he opened up that they actually connived to leave Abuja because of the poor states of their parents.
According to Amaechi, “We noticed that our parents were suffering in order to take of care us. We decided to come to Lagos and work for sometimes.
“Whatever we were able to raise in six months, we would handover to our parents for them to start business.
ALSO SEE: Police arrest fake Customs Officers
“We realised that the hardship was too much and that we would be helping them if we leave our families in Abuja in search of better opportunities in Lagos,” he stressed.
On how they got money to transport themselves to Lagos, Amaechi explained that he brought his N4,200 savings while Chinedu added N500 to pay for the fare.
“We were already in Lagos before we realised that we were simply being stupid. We were wandering about when the officer invited us for questioning”.
The Commander, Rapid Response Squad, ACP Olatunji Disu, who received the parents of the teenagers during the reuniting parade, he appealed to parents and guardian to monitor and take good care of their wards.
The reunification of the teenagers with their parents took place on Friday after spending five days in the custody of the RRS.
Expressing remorse, Chidubem and Chinedu promised not to repeat their actions again.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment