as police arrest three notorious killer gang 

By OKOSUN DENNIS
The Nigerian Police, Zone 2 Command, has cracked down on a notorious killer gang at Siriki Village in Ifo, Ogun over the killing of one Lanre, a welder.
The gang, comprising of Moses Anthony, a 20-year-old citizen of the Republic of Benin; Kabiru Ajao, 28 years old from Ede, Osun state and Samson Adagu, 25 years old from Kogi state allegedly killed Lanre on a revenge mission over the death of their cult leader, Olakunle Adelabu aka Callius.
Callius, it was learnt was a 400 level student of the University of Agriculture, Abeokuta in the department of Animal and Health.
Until his death, he said to be the Number one Eiye Confraternity in Ijoko. He was allegedly killed on his way to his house by a rival cult group, Aiye confraternity, who were working for Oba Ogunseye of Ijoko kingdom.
Narrating his involvement in the killing of Callius, Kabiru Ajao, an ex-prisoner explained that the Oba had some bad boys who are members of Aiye confraternity killing people for him. He disclosed that prior to the killing of their leader, Oba Ogunseye boys had killed over 12 people in Ijoko especially as he has a running feud with another Oba within Ijoko.
Kabiru told National Daily that “The boys that killed Callius are working for Oba Ogunseye of Ijoko. He has some cult boys working for him. I’m a member of Eiye cult but doesn’t know why they killed Callius,” he stated.
One of the notorious gang, Moses Anthony, who was said to have actively participated in the killing of Lanre earlier this month, confessed that eight of them actually carried out the killing in retaliation to the assassination of our leader, Callius.
Disclosing the names of the bad boys that killed Lanre as; Shako, Sikiru, Sola, Wale, Joshua, Taju, Kehinde and himself, noted that he was lured into cult by one of his friends in order to oppress people within his community.
ALSO SEE: War against Cult: Five persons in NSCDC net in Ondo
Samson Adagu who denied not participating in the killing corroborated what his gang members said that those that killed their friend work for Oba of Ijoko. “They help the Oba to kill rival cult boys and they have killed over 12 Eiye members at Ijoko.”
However, the Zonal Police Public Relations Officer (ZPPRO), Superintendent Dolapo Badmus, hinted that the gang were arrested after the Zonal Intervention Squad (ZIS) in Ogun state got information about the gang’s notoriety for specialising in killing rival cult groups.
“The Zonal Intervention Squad received information that they are killer squad and members of Eiye confraternity who have been creating tension in the community.
“We moved in and the three of them were arrested. During a search of their houses led to the recovery of three locally made cut-to-size gun and four live cartridges that were used in killing Lanre.”
SP Badmus further explained that “On interrogation of the suspects, we discovered that they have been engaging in killing and counter killings. They confessed that their leader was killed by a rival cult group hence they went after Lanre and killed him to avenge the death of their leader.
The ZPPRO, who represented the Zone 2 Commander, AIG Idris Ibrahim reiterated the commitment of Nigerian Police to deal with criminals gangs and every cult member. She, however, warned the youths to shun cultism as the police will deal decisively with anyone caught to be involved in cult and cultism in Lagos and Ogun states respectively.
 

			
			Post Views: 
			194