Share this on WhatsApp



The senate have suspended the planned concession of the Port Harcourt refinery to Agip and Oando by the ministry of petroleum resources.
The senators also resolved to constitute an ad hoc committee to probe the concession.
The upper legislative chamber took the decisions after considering a motion sponsored by Sabo Mohammed, senator representing Jigawa south.
While moving the motion, Mohammed said: “The federal government recently entered into an agreement with Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC), a subsidiary of ENI, an Italian oil giant to construct a $15 billion refinery in the Niger Delta region, a deal which also includes investment by Agip in a power plant with the Italian company assisting Nigeria in the repairs of the Port Harcourt refinery.
“The minister of state for petroleum resources stated that the agreement was part of a broader federal government plan to increase capacity for local production and consumption of petroleum products with the aim of ending fuel importation in Nigeria by 2019.
“While the resolve by the federal government to increase local refining capacity is laudable and should be applauded by all Nigerians, the observance of corporate governance principles and the country’s extant laws must be followed to the letter.”
ALSO SEE: Senate passes PIB after 17 years
The senator said that it was not also clear when Oando became part of the deal.
“The confusion became obvious following the disclosure on May 11, 2017, by the chief executive officer of Oando Plc on the floor of the Nigeria Stock Exchange that the group had received approval of the Federal Government to repair, operate and maintain the Port Harcourt Refinery Company with their partner Agip,” he said.
“This development would have been wonderful because it would mean an end to importation of refined products by the year 2020, but many questions are begging for answers, such as is it Agip/ENI or Oando Plc thtat is taking over Port Harcourt Refinery?
“Was there the observance of the privatisation law as regards due diligence, selection from preferred bidders before ceding of the Port Harcourt Refinery to Agip/Oando?
Mohammed said that it was sad that the Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna refineries were not producing up to 50 percent after lbe Kachukwu had promised that they would be producing at 90 percent by the end of 2015.
They adopted the motion after it was put to a voice vote by Bukola Saraki, senate president.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment