Share this on WhatsApp



Air Peace, one of Nigeria’s domestic airline operators topped the chart of delayed flights in the first quarter of 2017 with a delayed flights statistics of 2,036 out of a total flight of 3,262.
According to data obtained from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) Consumer Protection Department, out of the 10,366 flights operated in the first quarter, there was 6, 789 delay and 318 cancellations.
Arik Air recorded 1,059 delayed flights and 246 cancellations out of its 1,665 flight operations, while Dana Air operated 1,525 flights with 1,017 delayed and five cancellations.
Also from the data, domestic flight operations declined by 67 percent in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the same period last year.
The NCAA’s Consumer Protection Department disclosed that 10,366 flights operated in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the 15,434 flights operated in 2016 by the same eight domestic airlines.
The agency, in a document, said the domestic airline operators are Aero Contractors, Arik Air, Air Peace, Azman Air, Dana Air, First Nation, Med-View, and Overland.
Meanwhile, the domestic airlines said that various factors militated against their successful operations in the country. These included the high cost of aviation fuel, inadequate navigational aids and multiple charges by the various aviation agencies.
ALSO SEE: Air Peace condemns attacks on staff, accuses ex-lawmaker of inciting passengers
The President of the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), Capt. Nogie Meggison, said there was a need to create a more conducive environment for domestic airlines to thrive.
Meggison said that Nigerian carriers were restricted to daylight operations in most airports in the country while airlines in other West African countries operate 24 hours.
On his part, the Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Onyema, decried the issue of multiple charges imposed on the airlines, adding that it had put many of them out of business. “If these taxes are not reduced, more airlines will crumble. No airline can survive this regime of taxes. Currently, we pay about 37 charges.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment