Share this on WhatsApp
A husband got more than what he bargained for on Thursday as his wife blatantly told him he was not the father of her son after seven years as couples.


Samson Nkanang, 33 was dragged to court by the wife, Mojisola Ajiboye, seeking for divorce.
She told the Agege Customary Court that her husband is not the biological father of her son.
While giving testimony in the divorce suit she filed against her estranged husband at the court. The petitioner, a 30-year-old nurse, who resides at No. 46, Shiaba Street, Agege, said she regretted her seven-year marriage to the man.
She wanted divorce on ground that her husband was always abandoning her at home and travel on official trips without any form of care.
“My husband is irresponsible and has turned me into a punching bag, I am no longer interested in the union; I want the loveless marriage dissolved,’’ she pleaded.
She reiterated that the husband is not the biological father of her son. “I was impregnated by another man during the period my husband travelled on an official trip,’ she told the court.
In the bases of this, the estranged wife urged the court to dissolve the marriage so that they can go their separate ways “Although l registered the child’s birth in the respondent’s name, he is not the father of my son,’’she reiterated.
However, Samson denied the allegations of being an irresponsible husband and father.
He explained that he was on an official trip for two months in Akwa-Ibom when his wife told him she was pregnant. “On my return, I even had sexual intercourse with her severally in order for her private part to be opened according to the doctor’s report.
“So I am amazed now that she claims I am not the biological father of my child,” The respondent said.
ALSO SEE: Husband accuses wife of lesbianism, seeks for divorce
Samson noted that he has been taken care of the three-year-old child and the mother till date. He also alleged getting strange phone calls from an unknown person threatening him to leave his wife alone.
The husband pleaded with the court not to dissolve the marriage, saying “I am still in love with my wife.’’
Mr Philip Williams, the court’s President, advised the estranged couple to maintain peace and order.
As a result, Williams recommended that the couple go to forensic centre for DNA to affirm the biological status of the child and he saiddeferred the divorce suit indefinitely.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment