Share this on WhatsApp
By Lanre Adesanya
The All Progressive Congress (APC) in Lagos had a big catch on Wednesday,even as the party edge closer to the conduct of the council election scheduled for 22nd of July, a Peoples Democratic Party chieftain and two term Lagos Island Council Chairman Prince Lukman Ajose led numerous loyalist to APC.
Ajose led over 2000 former members of PDP in an official defection to APC at the party’s secretariat in ACME.
He was received by APC State Chairman, Henry Ajomale, among other leaders.
Ajose recounted why he left the ACN for the PDP about 10 years ago citing disagreements with Bola Tinubu, a national leader of APC.
He explained that all his political expectations were not met in the PDP and that he saw the APC as the only progressive party in Nigeria.
“I left the then ACN because of some issues, but I soon realised that what happened then was not as bad as what I experienced in the PDP.That was why I thought it is better to come back. I have been in the PDP and was in the ACN which has now transformed into APC, I can see the better party.
ALSO SEE: LASG expend N10.5bn on secondary school infrastructure upgrade – Deputy Gov.
“Again, when I look around this gathering, most of the people I see here are people we started together even before the formation of AD.I am so glad I am reuniting with them with my teeming supporters today. This is where I belong.
He also noted that Alhaji Tajudeen Olusi and Alhaji Rabiu Oluwa were  instrumental towards his return back home,thanking Tinubu for facilitating his return to the party despite his altercations with him when he was in the PDP.
In his remarks, Ajomale welcomed Ajose and his supporters to the party, describing his defection as a plus for the APC.
“We welcome you to the APC and we thank Asiwaju Tinubu for making this happen, despite what happened between the two of you.
“There is no permanent friend or enemy in politics. We are glad to have you in our party and we are sure you will add value to the party,’’ he said.

Share this on WhatsApp