The bubbling city of Edo, rose Friday,  to celebrate one Africa’s brightest and  outstanding football personality, Melvin Amaju Pinnick.
The event which was put together by the South South caucus, had in attendance,  the bigwigs in Edo state politics and Nigeria sports fraternity.
Commercial activities in the state came to a standstill as celebration littered the air. Children, teenagers, adults as well as old men and women travelled from far and near just to catch a glimpse of this very historical event that had in attendance, the executive governor of Edo state, His excellency Godwin Obaseki,  His deputy Hon. Philip Shuaibu,  Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Dr Justin Okonuoboh, Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Edo State Barrister Anselm Ojezua, members of the state executive council, members of the state assembly, commissioners, top business executives, members of the South South caucus, six members of the NFF executive committee led by 1st vice president Seyi Akinwunmi, FA Chairmen from over fifteen states of the federation,  former NFA chairman Dominic Oneya, former and serving NFF executive committee members, former and current Nigeria footballers and other friends of Amaju Melvin  Pinnick.
The weather was perfect for celebration, traffic was light on the day as Amaju flanked by friends and family arrived to the warm embrace of well wishers gathered inside the festival hall, situated right inside government house in Benin city.
It was a reception organised by the government and people of Edo state in honour of a man who has his roots fully knitted to the old Bendel state where he grew up supporting Bendel Insurance football club of Benin
They were all there, to celebrate a man who has risen in only a short time to the zenith of Africa and world football. He has defied the odds and rendered the form books useless, rising from obscurity to stardom.
In his congratulatory speech, the executive Governor of Edo State Godwin Obaseki extolled the good virtues of Amaju Pinnick describing him as a perfect gentleman and a goal getter who knows what he wants and how to go about it. He commended his bravery in the face of daunting opposition from even his fellow countrymen, saying his resilience and doggedness has taken him to a position of  pride and envy in Africa and world football.
NFF 1st Vice president, Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi says Nigeria has started reaping the benefits inherent, with the recent appointment of Pinnick as chairman of CAF organising and media committees position he says can help influence many favours our way.
NFF executive committee member Ahmed Yusuf Fresh is very excited that Africa’s most popular black nation, Nigeria is gradually taking it’s rightful place in Africa and World football politics. He enjoined all stakeholders to rally round Pinnick and the board to ensure Nigeria qualify for the 2018 World Cup in Russia and 2019 Nations Cup in Cameroon.
Kano state FA chairman Inuwa Sheriff described the occasion as perfect and befitting for an icon of African football. He called for more support for Amaju and the board as they strive to reposition Nigeria football as a true giant on the continent.
Earlier, Rivers State FA chairman, Barrister Christopher Green, speaking on behalf of the South South Caucus, organisers of the grand reception for the former chairman of Delta state sports commission, said Pinnick has shown that he is a child of destiny, a man primed for greater glory and a very dogged achiever. He said he is very happy to work as an executive committee member under the present Amaju Pinnick  led board and enjoined all Nigerians to tap from the benefits inherent in Pinnick emerging executive committee member of CAF.
When the moment came for him to speak, excitement clothed him as he struggled for words  to appreciate the governor of Edo state, Godwin Obaseki and all his cabinet members, organisers of this lavish reception, members of the NFF executive committee, former NFA president Dominic Oneya, FA chairmen present and all his friends and well wishes. He promised to always give his utmost in his new assignment and assured that Nigeria will emerge the biggest beneficiary in the long run.

			
			PV: 
			0