By Esther Egbe
Fast-rising arbiter, Ferdinand Anietie Udoh was the only Nigerian referee at the event, and this would be his second successive attendance at the U17 AFCON after he made his debut in Niger Republic in 2015.
Nigerian Referee Ferdinand  has emerged the best referee of the 33 referees drawn from all over Africa that took part in the just concluded CAF Young Talent Referees Course held in Cairo, Egypt.
Presenting the award to him for exemplary performance at the Sheraton Hotel 6th October City in Cairo, Mr Magdi Shams El Din, the Sudanese Chairman of the CAF Referees Committee urged him to keep the flag flying. By being disciplined and that he foresaw him officiating in the 2018 world Cup.
Udoh before becoming the best overall course participant, was appointed Work Group Leader and exhibited “ high level of confidence and Leadership qualities”
The referees were subjected to various various areas of tests including medical, physical fitness, practical and theoretical sessions, assessment of challenges and offside match analysis among others has been officiating for nineteen years now,he revealed to National Daily.
Nigeria’s second entrant for the course, assistant referee Tope ONigerian Referee Ferdinand Anietie Udoh who emerged the best referee of the 33 referees drawn from all over Africa that took part in the just concluded CAF Young Talent Referees Course held in Cairo, Egypt
Presenting the award to him for exemplary performance at the Sheraton Hotel 6th October City in Cairo, Mr Magdi Shams El Din, the Sudanese Chairman of the CAF Referees Committee urged him to keep the flag flying. By being disciplined and that he foresaw him officiating in the 2018 world Cup.

Udoh before becoming the best overall course participant, was appointed Work Group Leader and exhibited “ high level of confidence and Leadership qualities”explained to National Daily that its only God’s grace that is keeping him in his job.
The referees were subjected to various various areas of tests including medical, physical fitness, practical and theoretical sessions, assessment of challenges and offside match analysis among others.
Anietie told National Daily that the challenges of the referee is pressure  of teams to win a particular game ,its can make one lose focus , attempts has been made, but no serious beating.
Ferdinand concluded that there has never been in  any challenging time as a referee, because every moment is an opportunity to learn and be better.

			
			Post Views: 
			114