Share this on WhatsApp

Cheaper, stronger with more standard features




By Odunewu Segun
Weststar Associates, known for the distribution of luxury brands like Mercedes-Benz, Chrysler and Jeep has finally announced its presence in the C-segment of the automotive industry in Nigeria by unveiling the new Fiat Tipo.
Speaking at the event, Managing Director of Weststar Associates, Mirko Plath, told journalists that Weststar is motivated to provide the best variety of automobile brands to Nigerians, adding that bringing Fiat and its arrays of evolutionary vehicles- beginning with the Tipo, is a confirmation of this commitment.
According to Plath, the Fiat brand is no push over in the automotive industry having grown to become one of the most esteemed car brands in Europe and US, winning the “Europe Car of the year” more times than any other car brand.
Speaking on the new Tipo, General Manager for the FIAT Chrysler brands, Starvros Diamantidis, said the new car packed lots of features for less amount when compared to its competitors in the C-segment like the Toyota Corolla or the Hyundai Elantra.
According to him, Fiat Tipo has enhanced features by Italian design, inside and out, which makes the car unique in its segment. “Under the hood of this new car is a1.6V E.torQ Petrol engine with109hp that yields an economical fuel consumption of 15.9km/l mated a five-speed transmission and a Front-wheel drive.”
A peep inside the car confirmed the car’s readiness to take on competitors in the C-segment as the instrumental panel possesses a clear and uncluttered design offering all the information needed on a thin film transistor screen.
Other key features include 60/40 foldable rear seats, Uconnect TM system with a 5″ color touchscreen, hands-free Bluetooth system, audio streaming, text reader and voice recognition, AUX and USB ports with iPod integration, controls on the steering wheel and, on demand, a rear-parking camera with the new TomTom 3D Touch navigation system.

In the area of safety to occupants, Fiat Tipo didn’t disappoint. It is equipped with some of the most advanced safety systems. Some key safety features include six airbags and Electronic Stability Control (ESC) with Hill Holder, anti-lock brakes (ABS) complete with electronic brake force distribution (EBD), fog light with cornering function and Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS). Also, even in the tightest maneuvers, the Tipo yields a record turning circle of just 11 metres.
In partnership with Air France, a 10% discount to Europe will be available (together with an additional 5% discount totaling 15% discount if travelling to Italy or London) for the first 20 purchasers of the FIAT Tipo. This promotion will last from 24th of May to 30th July 2017 and travel period is 2017.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment