Share this on WhatsApp

advice Nigerians to withdraw enough cash




Members of the National Union of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (NUBIFIE) has threatened to embark on a nationwide strike over the unlawful detention of their National President, Danjuma Musa.
In a statement made available to National Daily and signed by its General Secretary, Muhammed Sheik, it described the allegation of N30 million fraud leveled against the National President as outright falsehood.
Speaking at a press conference in Lagos, Muhammed Sheikh, said the union’s president has remained incommunicado since he was taken away by some SARS members to Area F Police Station on May 11.
‘’If it was an arrest, he will be allowed to speak to his lawyer or family members. On May 12, when we found him in Area F, Ikeja, the police accused him of stealing and threat to life.
‘’Later, that same day, Musa called that he has been flown to federal SARs in Abuja and till today, members of the union have called but his phones cannot be reached,’’ Sheikh said.
ALSO SEE: Task force on failed banks Act to re-arrest absconded accused persons
He said the union discovered that a former dismissed worker of Enterprise Bank who claimed to be a factional NUBIFIE Acting Secretary was behind the arrest.
According to him, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) should know that he cannot work for a group of people against Nigerian workers and leadership of NUBIFIE.
He therefore advised the general public to withdraw their money from banks as from this week, noting that the union in protest will ensure all banks are closed if Danjuma Musa is not released in good condition of health.
He, however, said the union members would made a peaceful protest to Area F Police Station at Ikeja to request for the release of their President.
He appealed to the IGP to investigate the allegation against the union’s president and leadership, adding that the issue had been reported at the Federal Criminal Investigation Bureau, Abuja, before now.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment