Share this on WhatsApp

saves properties worth N99.72 bn in 2016




By Lanre Adesanya
Lagos State Commissioner for Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Relations, Hon Oluseye Oladejo has disclosed that the ministry saved about N99.72 billion worth of property in 2016, that would have been consumed via fire related incidents, while an estimated 16.2 billion naira worth of property loss was recorded.
Oladejo stated this at the ongoing ministerial press briefing at Alausa Ikeja while giving account of his stewardship in the last one year and as part of activities to mark the second year in office of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode.
He said in the year under review, the State Fire Service received a total of 1,225 emergency calls, with 988 fire calls, 139 rescue calls with 90 false calls.
According to him, following the growing population and rapid development in the State and to address the challenge such variables engender, the  governor approved the creation of four new fire stations in the state which are located at Olorunda-Badagry, Eredo-Epe, Ijede-Ikorodu and Bolade-Oshodi, which is fully operational, giving the state a total of 14 fire stations.
Responding to safety on waterways which is described as  vulnerable to vices, the commissioner maintained that the governor is intensifying efforts to ensure safety on waterways, noting that more speed boats are being deployed to checkmate cases of vices and suicide attempts.
ALSO SEE: World Press Freedom Day: Lawmaker canvasses journalists security
While he said that the government might not be able to contain suicide attempts by jumping into water as several counselling programmes have be employed, the governor he said “is putting in place measures such as employment creation, conducive environment for easy of doing business, deployment of massive infrastructure amongst others to forestall such occurrence.”
Meanwhile the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment has in fulfilment of its mandate through the state’s Employment Trust Funds, ETF approved loans totalling N1.7 billion for 1,401 beneficiaries.
Speaking at the press briefing, the Commissioner Mr Babatunde Durosinmi-Etti said the Trust Fund which was established in March, 2016, has engaged and empowered many youths who are currently business owners.
“The ETF on promoting wealth creation and employment has successfully received 3,758 applications in the first batch of the pilot project. The board approved 705 applicants totalling N900,137,078. Each of the beneficiaries in the pilot phase received cheques ranging from N50 thousand to N5m to grow and enhance their business and create jobs.
“For the second batch of the pilot project, the Fund received 1,937 applications. Out of these the board approved 696 applicants totalling N855,338,037.”
He added that the successful applicants have been contacted to meet the conditions that precede the disbursement of their loans.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment