commends infrastructural development in Lagos

A Former Senator representing Lagos East at the Senate, Olorunnimbe Mamora, has expressed his endorsement for a second term for Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State.
The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain disclosed this recently at Kosofo Local Government during the commissioning of the eight roads newly upgraded in the local government by the State Government.
“By God’s grace and by the grace of the people who the Governor has been serving very well, I pray that Governor Ambode will complete his eight years in office,” the Senator said.
Mamora, also a former Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, commended Ambode for his sterling performance in office within two years, saying that the infrastructures put in place by the Governor have greatly contributed to reduction of stress for the people and increase productivity.
He said the springing up of critical infrastructures in all sectors and sections of the State, apart from its positive implication for trade and commerce, would save the people from stress and hypertension, as well as lead to increase in productivity. 
“People may not really appreciate what it entails but apart from opening up this area for communication, trade, commerce and so on, it goes beyond that. How about the stress factor that has been reduced because if you are coming from the Express now from Third Mainland Bridge, once you just turn at Ogudu, it leads you straight to Alapere and from there to Ikorodu.”
ALSO SEE: Tax payers’ money at work in Lagos – Ambode
“Now, when you reduce stress on the people, off course, you also reduce their tendency to develop hypertension. Again, when you reduce what you call man-hour loss, you increase productivity. So, this thing has multiplier effect and the total transformation of this area is commendable.”
He recalled how former Lagos State Governor and now National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu opened up the area in 2002 with the upgrade of Kola Iya Omolere Road, while his successor, Babatunde Fashola build on the developmental template laid by the former by upgrading Agboyi Road.
Also, speaking during the inauguration of network of roads newly completed in Epe by the Ambode administration, the Oloja of Epe, Oba Kamorudeen Ishola Animasahun said he was proud of the achievements of the Governor in office in all sections of the State.
The monarch, who recalled the flyovers built in Abule Egba and Ajah, as well as he regeneration of Ojodu Berger axis and the bridge/network of roads in Aboru and Abesan communities, said he was particularly happy that the gift from Epe to Lagos State in person of Governor Ambode had not disappointed the people, as there are visible projects in all parts of the State.
The newly inaugurated roads are Omotayo Banwo, Kola Iyaomolere, Omotayo Close, Adetunji Adegbite Street, Ogun Street, Goodluck Street and Prince Oyewunmi Street.

			
			PV: 
			0