Prof. Alexia Thomas Demands
What is the Problem with US Democrats and Democratic Party?
Why Attack with Offensive Vocalism to Undo President Donald Trump?
Every Leader has Executive Power, Indispensable Status, the Audaciousness and the Veritas of Authority to Govern as he Pleases.
What is the FBI Story?
What is the Inquiry?
What is the Inquest and What is the Investigation?
The Tempestuous Of Liberty Is A Man’s Birth Rights Not To Be Subjected To Another Man’s Will, If The Rule Prevails Not. — By Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas
The act to stop Trump Leadership is an Opposition Party Covert Operation in Democrat Monstrousity Agenda to Divide America. The Media has no business with White House Affairs. The Opposition Party is plotting to impeach Donald Trump by funding the American Media to continually make Provocative Statements against Donald Trump. This is simply Madness in a Turmoil in a Bottle.
ILLOGICAL ENTRAPMENT
Democrat Politicians get to Behave Themselves.
The Ponderosity of Mr. Trump seem a Mayhem and Threat to Democrats who Governed America with False Directions.
Mr. Donald Trump will and cannot be Impeached. So, Democrats stop Fuming Hate and allow Republican Party Rule as now is their own Centre Stage. Hence, Parties are Rivals, then Media Houses Shutup and Do not take sides or be ready to be Shutout of Business.
I asked the Democratic Party and the American Medias to stop the ‘Political Cajole Of Malice, Stop the Political Jeopardy, Stop all Political Hindrances, Stop the Political Menaces and equally Stop the Junta Politics and finally must Stop the Rivalry Hunt Fierce’.
WHAT IS AMERICA? 
America is a failed Republic enacted by the Will of the Conquest of Men in denial of Divine Right of Kings  after the Beheading of King Charles I in 1649. So, the sons of Britain sought their own Independence, a Destructive Sovereignty leading to the Creation of United States of America in her Lust Illusional Concept of Democracy preempting Capitalism the Wreck of Men in Supremacy of Equality surging Inequality.
I, Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas have seen the Recklessness of the American Media fuming with Unfounded Statements to disrupt Mr. Trump Presidency. The American Media is Sponsored in my view by Politicians without an iota of doubt from the Democratic Party.
The American Media has now become Pen Terrorists, a Mayhem to the Government by their Provocative Statements made against the President of America. Irrespective of Donald Trump views and Agenda for his Will of Change, no one has the right to criticize him or make a Mediocrity of him. His Government has not hurt the American People, his Views are Coherent with his Cabinet.
Media Hates Him, because he is Pragmatic, so in simple definition go off him. Those who like him accept his Views, then what is wrong with the Media Views.
Do Media have the Right to infringe on White House Prologs?, certainly No.
Who is then the Media?
A vehicle to Transport Information governed by the Power of Government.
The Government Action Is Always Justified As No Leader Is Mad, But Has Autonomy Of The Law To Lead As He Wills. – By Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas
AMERICA IMMIGRATION LAW AND TRUMP VIEWS ON ALIEN INVASION
President Donald Trump views to net Illegal Migrants out of America, though the word illegal is a Tautology as no Human is Contraband, but simply is not a reason to hate him. I strictly warned the American Media to stay off President Trump’s Pitch or be ready to face the Brunt of the Law.
Power is a Rank of Authority and Position is a Limitation of Right. — By Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas
President Donald Trump has Autonomy of the Law to Rule as he Wills, so the Media must stay off his Boundaries. Trump is Voted in Power by the Act of Democracy, so Anarchists your tears are coming late. Emotion will not wrecked the movement of the Terrains, so Haters of Trump just must lay their Trumpets of Ghastly venom or be ready to be hit by their own Poison. Nothing has spoilt other than the Float of Action has a time to expire, so simply  Americans have a choice not to vote Trump again.
President Donald Trump is in Power, so every American should live with it, for the better, for the hurt or harsh, hence Democracy is by Count of majority, then the Will of Multitude is Right, so Trump is then not as bad as labelled.
The Media intrusion in President Donald Trump Leadership is a premeditated attempt to disrupt his Government, a trap and decoy to impeach him with façade of lies and at this junction, I pronounce and declared in my Name that, I, Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas advise President Donald Trump, he is within the Law and Legal Remit, to Shutout Destructive Bureaucrats who are now Political Terrorists from Parliament and Senate and or Close Down the Media Houses that have shown a will to set American People ablaze in their Hoax News against a Government whose genuine intention is to Protect the American People.
Mr. Trump Is An Icon Of Business Power, The Fierce Man Willed By A Powerful View, The Brand That Stylon His Greatness. Those Who Speak Against Him Are Simply Jealous Of Him. — By Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas
The Perch Of An Eagle Is The Gorgeousness Of Its Wings That Hold The Stable Of Its Feet — By Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas
On this, I Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas ask Mr. President Trump to immediately Pass a Bill of Immunity to Protect his Reputation. The Media can be Shutout and Shutdown, if their Hell-Raiser Maldemer of Essentricism continues.
PRESIDENT AUTHORITY
Principle Without Emotion Is Not Cruelty, But The Act To Embrace Emotion Is The Destruction Of Self-Determinism; It’s A Me, Do Or Die Affair.  — By Her Knowledgeable Prof. Alexia Thomas
The Hammers of Trump must be Ponderous.
Democrats, I, Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas say Stop the Mayhem. FBI Stop the Intrusion. No Independent FBI Chief has Power to Investigate Mr. President. This is Evidence American Style of Government is Too many Cook Spoil the Meal, so American Justice is a Political Bill of Maniacs.
Investigation against Trump Presidency must be stopped. He has the Power as a President to Close Down the FBI. So, Americans respectively Voted Donald Trump in Power by the Act of Democracy.
The only reason Democrats are questing Trump’s Government is because they are equally a Criminal Mastermind themselves, Simply, a Kettle calling a Pot Black.
So, I, Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas say unto President Donald Trump you must now  Exercise and by Mandate of Executive Powers without the Court, because the Court is equally part of the Government and because the Government has willed the interest for Motherland, then the Court must recognize the Government.
Mr. Donald Trump has America to Governed. Democracy is not the Best System of Government. So, the Menaces of Media Threat is Destructive to the Trump Government. So, I, Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas warn all American Media Houses to withdraw the Narcissism of Ferocious Plot.
DEMOCRATS HIDING IN THE VEIL

Democratic Party is the Biggest Problem of Americans in their failed ideology to suppress People’s Voice by Witch-hunting Rivals. This is simply Narcissism.
Democratic Party has a lot to hide. The Veil in the Brunt to Impeach President Donald Trump is because the Democratic Party in their Malignant Operations has Seized and Frozen a lot of Russian Assets and because President Trump takes a Different View on the past Government’s Abuse on the Russian Government in that Donald Trump will release all Frozen Russian Seized Assets which Democrats Millionaires have kept as their own Asset enriching their Coffers daily in the name of Government.
Democrats feared Trump’s Relationship with the Russians, so in that game they have made all façade of unfounded Fallatical Allegations against President Trump.
So, Democrats, I Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas advise your Party to Behave Themselves or get Dissolved by the Electorate.
American Politics for the First Time will Change to Conventional of Liberal Association with Americans most Hated Countries. Relationship of Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin is not a Crime. So, Democrats, stop the Destruction of Trump Presidency.
Trump’s Government owns the Play Ground, so Democrats Keep Off or equally Face the Laws and Brunt of Justice. President Trump has been Democratically elected by the American People, so Democrats should mind their business or their Party will face the Haunt of expulsion.
President Donald Trump is a Victim of Blackmail, Libel and Defamation of Character, so American Democrats and her Democratic Party be warned. You can fool all, but not Great Eye, as I, Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas is a Guardian Angel from the Realm of the English Orthodox hence my Silence will bring Jeopardy denying Human Protection and Values, I so believe must be defended till my death. I will not compromise Truth for Corruption.

Press Release By Her Knowledgeable Professor Alexia Thomas – Chairman of The Commonwealth Liberation Party and Chieftain of The Commonwealth Treaty Alliance Commission.
 

			
			PV: 
			0