Share this on WhatsApp
By OKOSUN DENNIS
The Commander, Operation Delta Safe, Rear Admiral Apochi Suleiman on Friday explained how Ossy Ibori, a notorious militant was killed with his gang at Ajakpa community in Ondo state.
Admiral Apochi noted that their operation was geared towards the protection of oil and gas infrastructure and carry out raid to eliminate crude oil theft, militancy, kidnappings and other forms of criminal acts.
He disclosed that the troops have successfully unblocked AJAKPA – BOLOWO waterway which has been blocked by Ossy Ibori’s gang in the past four months.
“It has been cleared and now opened for free flow of water navigation by the general public,” he reiterated.
Explaining how they killed the notorious militant, said “About 8.45pm on Sunday, 30 April 2017, our troops on special operations repelled a deliberate pre emptive attack at Ajakpa community of Ese Odo Local Government of Ondo State.
“During the duel, the kingpin Ossy Ibori , notorious criminal was killed among his other gang members.
“Following that successful operation, our troops carried out a raid operation to clear remnants of miscreants/militant camps, shrines and hideouts used as safe haven were cleared.”
National Daily learnt that during the operation, several arrests of criminal gang were made and some quantities of items of munitions were recovered.
ALSO SEE: JTF kills suspected Militant leader in Ondo
It was further gathered that some of the militants fled when their leader was killed in action.
However, the military has resolved to continue to maintain its presence in the general area in order to deter and apprehend all unrepentant criminals terrorising the peace loving people of the communities.
Admiral Apochi further stated that “Our troops will continue to patrol all waterways in the Niger Delta including Southern Ondo where militants are currently terrorising the general public, to ensure there is no hindrance of any form to public peace.
“I would like to use this opportunity to condole the families of our fallen heroes, who pay the supreme price in the course of maintaining peace and security in this operation.
“Let me use this opportunity to also commend the general public especially non-violent youth of Niger Delta and the press for all the support given to us in achieving our mandate.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment