Share this on WhatsApp



 
By OKOSUN DENNIS
After months of rigorous construction work spanning day and night, it was a huge relief on Wednesday as the flyover bridge on the Ajah-Epe expressway christened “Jubilee Bridge” was finally commissioned and opened for vehicular use in Lagos.
The bridge which started in June 2016 was expected to last 18 months by fortunately, due to the dexterity of the company, Hitech Construction Company, it was completed in 10 months.
Expressing satisfaction with the quality of work done, the Governor of Lagos state, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode said he was excited that one of the major challenges confronting Lagos in terms of traffic are getting speedy solution.
He noted in a brief speech at the commissioning ceremony that his administration is to “create connectivity through road construction” noting that with the opening of the bridge, “the trouble with traffic gridlock will be eliminated.”
Ambode observed that the construction of the bridge was given adequate priority because of the strategic importance considering that it constitute a major link road to Lekki Free Trade Zone, which is the future business hallmark in the quest to galvanise economic growth of the state.
“As we approach mid-term of our administration, we would continue to be creative to ameliorate the sufferings of Lagosians. I urge the citizens to pay their taxes” so that more dividends of democracy will be achieved.
To the motorists and other road users, Gov Ambode tasked them to compile with traffic laws. He applauded them for their patience in the last 10 months the work lasted.
 
 
On building more infrastructures to reduce stress on the new bridge, Gov Ambode said that the slip road that was used as access road when the construction work lasted would be turned into modern bus terminal as work will commence immediately. “Our goal is to reactive Badore jetty so that people can access Ikorodu,” he added.
National Daily recalls that the bridge was conceived to resolve the perennial traffic gridlock at Ajah/Ado-Badore Lekki-Eti-osa Expressway Roundabout and environs with the intention that Lagos bound traffic along the Eti-osa-Lekki Expressway are effectively channelled into Freedom Road and Admiralty way which are strategic links to the Lekki-Ikoyi link bridge.
The Jubilee Bridge is a 160 metres long dual carriageway and total length of 620 metres ramp with service lanes on either side of the bridge and median, kerb and walkways provided together with signalized traffic and street lights.
In his closing remarks, the Commissioner of Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Temitope Irele thanked all and sundry for sacrificing their time to honour the commissioning.
Present at the ceremony were community leaders, CDC leaders, traditional rulers and people from corporate institutions.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment