Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
The Lagos Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) faction in Lagos, Chaired by Mr Segun Adewale, had announced May 26 as the new date for the party’s primary for the July 22 local council election.
Adewale, who is loyal to the Ali-Modu Sherrif national leadership of the party, made this disclosure to newsmen in Lagos yesterday, noting the shift was to allow for more time to consummate the reconciliatory moves with the Moshood Salvador-led camp ahead of the poll.
It will be recalled that the primary had earlier been scheduled for May 19, but was shifted to hold on May 23, before being moved again to May 26.
Adewale said he was committed to the unity of the party and its success at the poll and the shift in its primary was a way to achieve that.
He said he was ready to make concessions to the Salvador camp and even field candidates with the faction on 50-50 basis to ensure the party performed well at the poll.
He appealed to the Salvador camp, which belongs to former Gov. Ahmed Makarfi-led National Caretaker Committee of the party, to embrace peace.
“I am for the unity and the success of the party and I will continue to do that to ensure our party is stronger in the state.
“It is not in the interest of democracy for the opposition to be divided less than two months to an election,” he said.
ALSO SEE: LG election: PDP Lagos intact, resolved to deliver victory – Aeroland
According to him, PDP will field candidates for all the 20 Local Government areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDA).
He urged the party members to be steadfast and work assiduously for the success of the party.
The Salvador camp had earlier threatened to contest the election under a different political platform if reconciliation with the Adewale group failed.
Mr Taofik Gani, Publicity Secretary of the camp said though a decision had not been made on that, it would consider it, if forced to do so.
The Lagos State independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC) has fixed July 22 for the council poll and July 29 for run-off.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment