The redeployment of some-ranking officers on the frontline of the war against the Boko Haram insurgence in the North-east has been generating mixed feelings among officers in Maiduguri, Borno state.
National Daily gathered Lucky Irabor, theatre commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, and Victor Ezuwgu, acting general officer commanding (GOC), 7 division, have been transferred out of Borno state.
According to top military sources, Ibrahim Attahiru, a major general at the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), Kaduna, would take over from Irabor, while Ezugwu would be replaced by I.M Yusuf, a brigadier general.
ALSO SEE: Names of 82 Chibok Girls released
Barring last minute change of plans, Irabor and Ezugwu would hand over to their successors on June 1 and June 10 respectively.
Irabor will be going to the multi-national joint task force (MNJTF), where he will take over from Lamidi Adeosun, a major general, and Ezugwu will be deployed to a military formation in Zaria, Kaduna, as a GOC.
Adeosun, it was gathered, will resume at the defence headquarters in Abuja.
The reorganisation has created mixed feelings among officers in Borno.
Some believe that the redeployment is long overdue, others are of the view that they should have been left to end the war they made a significant contribution to reducing.
A senior military officer opposed to the development said the army has never had commanders who had recorded tremendous successes in the war against insurgency like the outgoing theatre commander and his GOC.
“The theatre commander and the GOC were the only commanders who went to the war front to engage Boko Haram terrorists. The GOC was always with troops on the war front and that was why we called him ‘the game changer’.
Another commander, who also spoke off the record, said he felt “very bad” over the issue. “Of course, we know that they won’t be here forever, that is the nature of this job. But I feel bad that these great men are leaving the theatre at this point,” he said.
According to the source, the troop will be meeting on the 25th of May where Lucky Irabor will officially announce his replacement.
Irabor was appointed as the theatre commander on March 17, 2016.

			
			Post Views: 
			94