Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
In commemoration to Lagos at 50 Celebrations, Members of the Lagos State House of Assembly during Plenary Session took turns to laud their achievements as the legislative arm of government towards the success story of Lagos State.
The Lawmakers laid emphasizes on various bills and resolutions passed by the House which led to infrastructural development, security stability and economic growth of the State.
Speaking, Hon. Bisi Yusuf reiterated that Lagos State used to have an untidy environment but with the establishment of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority LAWMA law there have been tremendous change in the State’s waste management and also the enactment of Lagos State Traffic Management Authority LASTMA law has eased the traffic congestion in the State.
Contributing, Hon. Rotimi Olowo, said the House has made tremendous financial re-engineering in its budgetary allocation to Ministry,Department and Agencies MDAs, to ensure unprecedented infrastructure renewal and development that would consequently transform the lives of Lagosian.
He also noted that amongst other achievements in the State is the establishment of the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund LSETF, the Lagos State Security Trust Fund, and Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Corp.
ALSO SEE: LASG lauds sponsors, corporate bodies for supporting Lagos @ 50
Hon. Lanre Ogunyemi commended Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for his relentless effort at curbing the security challenges in the State and reducing same by establishing numerous empowerment programme and provision of job opportunities for the teeming youths.
Hon. Ogunyemi noted that without the Legislature the duo of Executive and Judiciary cannot function because it is the legislature that makes the State more conducive to live in by passing reasonable laws.
To this end, the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa,
congratulates his colleagues on the historic gathering of Lagos State 50th anniversary saying the Lagos legislature is most powerful.
“We have been able to make cordial relationship and stability with the Executive and Judiciary”. He added.
He however appealed to his colleagues to continue to be selfless in the way they have been carrying out their services to State.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment