Share this on WhatsApp

stop denting police image – SP Badmus




By OKOSUN DENNIS
An unattached spy police was on Tuesday paraded by the Zone 2 Command, Onikan, Lagos for wearing regular police uniform to commit illegal duty.
The impersonator, Corporal Alex Agbo, 39, admitted being a spy police and was formally attached to Studio Brand Solutions, an advertising agency at Opebi in Ikeja.
The Benue state born Alex Agbo explained that he was relieved of duty at the company located at No 8b Bolaji Ajibola Street, Community Road, Opebi Road, Off Allen Avenue in April after the company couldn’t pay salaries.
National Daily recalls that a new uniform, ash colour, was approved for Spy police by the former Inspector General of Police, Solomon Arase, making it an offence for any spy police to use regular police uniform.
National Daily learnt that the impersonator was arrested by a crack team of X-Squad who were mandated by the Commander, Zone 2, AIG Idris Ibrahim to arrest any spy police still, clandestinely, wearing the uniform to perpetrate illegal acts.
It was further gathered that Agbo was arrested while escorting a pick-up van from Iyana Ipaja to Iyana-Oba while the vehicle was conveying iron rod.
ALSO SEE: How my husband was killed by a policeman at Lekki Gardens phase 4 scheme
However, speaking with the suspect, he denied escorting the vehicle but was only assisted to get home since he had no money on him for transport.
“The vehicle was empty and they only assisted me to get to my destination.
“I was going home when I was arrested by the police. I am a Spy Police and was attached to Studio Brand Solutions but was relieved of my duty in April due to the inability of the company to provide basic welfare needs for workers,” he explained.
Asked if he was wearing Spy Police uniform when he was apprehended, he accepted being caught on police uniform but was not on illegal duty.
Reemphasizing that he was caught carrying out illegal duty on police uniform, one of the policemen that arrested him explained anonymously that Agbo was not telling the truth.
“He was arrested escorting Pick-up loaded with iron rod along Igando road. We arrested him about 1pm; took the particulars of the vehicle and allowed the driver to go while he was brought to our office.
“He was wearing police uniform when he was arrested.  He had a Spy Police Identity card on him. He told us that the company where he was working was shut down hence he has no regular beat attached to now.”

National Daily discovered from his  identity card that he was a Corporal with Spy Warrant Number: HQ 7953.
The Zonal Command Public Relations Officer, SP Dolapo Badmus, who stood in for the AIG warned other spy police who might be nursing similar intention to shun it.
According to her, “We realised he was not even a policeman buy a spy. What he was adorning was police uniform against the “ash colour top” approved for them by the IGP.
“They are not supposed to wear police uniform. He is under investigation and the AIG Zone 2, Idris Ibrahim, has ordered he should be charged to court for impersonation at the end of our investigation.
“We are using this opportunity to tell members of the public to be vigilant because not everybody that adorns police uniform and claiming to be an officer are actually policemen.
“We are going to sustain the tempo of sending X-Squad to the road to pick up unscrupulous elements claiming to be policemen and thereby denting the good image of the force as well as curb any illegal duty,” SP Badmus further warned.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment