hands over confiscated pellets to NDLEA

By OKOSUN DENNIS
The campaign to eradicate illicit drug trafficking and use paid off as personnel of the Nigerian Navy confiscated comprised cannabis sativa SK from some drug syndicates at Igbooja village near Badagry, Lagos State.
Displaying the 100 bags of suspected substance weighed 4226.6 kg about 4.23 tonnes with an estimated value of over N40m, the Commander, NNS Beecroft, Commodore Maurice Eno disclosed the arrest was made possible through a tipoff.
National Daily gathered that no suspect was arrested as the criminal elements who were conveying the marijuana in two fibre boats named: “Authority is Allowed” and “Temitope Marine,” jumped into the sea and escaped.
     
Displaying the comprised cannabis sativa to National Daily, it was neatly packaged with an inscription: ” God First” on each of the yellow pack.
Cdre Eno reiterated that “About 1100hrs on Wednesday, 10 May 2017, personnel of the Nigerian Navy arrested two fibre boats loaded with 100 bags of substance packaged in 77 big bags and 23 medium bags worth $103,869.”
“The Nigerian Navy under the leadership of the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ette Ibas is determined to rid our waterways of all forms of illegalities.
“NNS Beecroft is committed to assisting National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) to deal with the issue of trafficking of illicit substances.
Receiving the seized cannabis on behalf of NDLEA, The Principal Staff Officer/Operations and Intelligence, Lawal Isiaka, Lagos State Command, commended the Nigerian Navy’s gigantic effort in making the arrest.
He sad, “The arrest of this nature is tempting because the criminals would want to buy their way out, but the naval personnel placed the interest of Nigerians above other pecuniary interest and seized the illicit products.
“We pray this synergy would be sustained to eradicate the criminals. We are going to synergize with the navy to ensure that people behind this illicit trade are brought to book soonest.
Responding to National Daily, Lawal added that they were doing everything possible to block all their sources through the farmers and at the various border posts to seize any substance being ferried into the country.
He explained that the comprised SK are mostly from other West African countries especially Ghana. He noted that they have mounted motorised patrol at the border post and have made a lot of arrest.
It was gathered that between 2013 and 2014, the NDLEA destroyed two major farms in Lagos apart from many other farms across the country.
Explaining why it was difficult for the agency to constantly and regularly comb the nooks and crannies of the street to mop up drugs and arrest users, Lawal reiterated that personnel challenges constitute stumbling block hindering such operations.
He noted, however, that they are deploying available manpower to comb hot spots and had made a lot of arrest in recent times.
He used the opportunity to appeal to the government at all levels to assist the NDLEA with operational vehicles.
National Daily recalls that on the 7 February, 2017, three suspects were handed over to NDLEA by the navy with several bags of seized substances.

			
			Post Views: 
			98