Two Police Officers and one Navy rating have been reportedly killed as Police and Navy men clashed in Calabar, capital city of Cross River State.
An eye witness who pleaded not to be mentioned said that the trouble started when an unidentified Deputy Superintendent of Police in mofty was beaten by Navy men for reversing his vehicle close to their gate at Akim barracks, along IBB way, Calabar.

The eye witness said that “The problem started when a Police DSP was trying to negotiate the U-turn around Akim Navy barracks. When he tried to turn the first time, he couldn’t go so he reversed his vehicle back and in the process, the Navy guys at the gate said he touched their gate or he reversed close to their gate.

“Since he was on mofty, I think they didn’t know he was a Police officer because when they approached him, they dragged him down and started beating him almost to a comer. It was then that Police officers rushed from Akim to the scene.

ALSO SEE: Police Sergeant shot dead in front of station

“When the Police arrived and saw that he was beaten to a coma and had sustained different degrees of injuries, they gunned down one Navy man.

“After the Navy man was gunned down, the Police were trying to escape but Navy reinforced very fast and shot and killed two Police men”.

He added that “since then they have been pandemonium in Calabar as they have  been serious exchange of gunshots between them. From the gunshots we heard after I ran for my life, more officers or even innocent citizens would have died”.

When contacted, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Irene Ugbo confirmed the incident but said that two officers, one Police and one Naval officer not three were killed.

She added that the situation was under control as the authorities of the two security agencies in the state have stepped in.

“Yes, there was a clash but the situation is calm now. The Commissioner of Police and Navy Commander have calmed the situation”

Asked of the casualty level she said that “One Police man and one Navy officer died in the clash”.

			
			PV: 
			0