By ANDREW OJIEZEL
 
The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), has described as disturbing the rumours of coup and warns the military to stay off politics. All Nigerians irrespective of political affiliation must kick against any military intervention which must be seen as an aberration. 

TUC in a statement by the President, Comrade Bobboi Kaigama, signed by the Secretary General, Comrade (Barr) Musa-Lawal Ozigi, stressed that “It will be recalled that our military, indeed all Nigerians have condemned coups in Africa and even outside the continent, a feat that was commended at the level of the international community. To hear that the military is nursing such a misadventure, even if by rumours only must be seen as ignoble.  


ALSO SEE: Groups accuse NLC, TUC, ULC of hindering workers’ freedom


“One beauty of democracy is that there is freedom of speech, at least it has allowed us to challenge our thieving politicians at all levels. This is not the case with the military which does not possess any iota of democratic blood, with their exhibition of autocracy and brute force. We wish to sound it that workers and the masses of Nigerians laboured and sacrificed greatly to enthrone democracy that has now been hijacked by a negligible few that have now become the lawmakers, the governors and so-called political leaders to the detriment of the working class and citizens of the country. Let it be known that the people have voted for democracy and will strive to protect it. What should be paramount to all progressive Nigerians now is how to move the country forward and not to distabilise it. We know who caused the problem of the country.

“Truly, Nigerians are abreast of the fact that we have a serious challenge with the present democracy and the crop of leaders that we have at various levels of government. It is a challenge all of us must strive to correct, certainly not by coup. The military, mainstream politicians and privileged Nigerians should be careful not to throw the country into another political pandemonium and disappear into thin air leaving the masses to suffer.  Let the rumour be what it is, a rumour. Nigerians are no longer ready for any hoodwinking. We have come of age.”


			
			Post Views: 
			88