A non-governmental organization, Advocacy for Integrity and Economic Development (AIED) has accused the ‘cabal’ within the presidency of plotting to create confusion in the country by its continuous interference with the decision of the President.
The group described the designation of Vice- President Yemi Osinbajo as ‘coordinator of national affairs’ via the notice of medical vacation submitted to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari  as one of such interferences, a desecration of the office of the President and a complete aberration.
In a statement issued on Tuesday by its Director of Research and Publicity, Comrade O’Seun John, said the group is extremely saddened with the content of President Buhari’s letter where he neglected tradition and voice of sanity to dance to the tune of political vampires by importing a lexicon alien to Nigeria’s constitution.  “While we are aware of the unambiguous provision of section 145, we are frightened by signals such as this on the peace and unity of our country. “
The statement reads: “The new designation of Professor Osinbajo can only be interpreted to mean that President Buhari does not trust him enough to act as the President in his absence. With this reality, we are now forced to ask: who does President Buhari truly recognise as the Acting President?
This act has put paid to any form of doubt that the powers controlling the affairs of the country have greater influence and perhaps, control than the vice-president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo” the statement read.
ALSO SEE: Buhari should address Nigerians – AIED
The Senate had earlier today averted what could have been a major constitutional crisis following the ambiguity in President Buhari’s letter informing the Senate that he was proceeding on a follow up medical leave to London.
Relying on Section 145 of the Constitution which was also quoted in President Buhari’s letter, the Senate said Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is Acting President since there is no provision for Coordinating Vice President in the Constitution.
President Buhari had in letter dated May 5, 2017 which was read by Senate President, Bukola Saraki, informed the Senate that he would be away for a scheduled medical follow up with his doctors in London, and that while he was away, the vice president will “coordinate activities of the government.”
 

			
			Post Views: 
			127