It was goals galore as action commenced in the Channels International Kids Cup group stage with Community Primary School, Lagos, Paragon Demonstration School, Edo, Mowoe Primary School, Delta and Jaafaru Primary School from Kaduna recording opening day victories.
Group A action got proceedings underway with Community Primary School from Lagos taking on Islamic Government Primary School, Modakeke, Osun State.
The boys from Osun took control of the game from the blast of the whistle. But the boys from Lagos managed to survive and the first ended goalless.
When the game resumed, Islamic Government Primary School continued where they stopped in the first half.
They controlled the game but couldn’t get the ball into the net.
With 10 minutes to stoppage time, the boys from Abule-Egba stunned the crowd. In the same vein, Idris Azeez stole the ball from the Osun defence and produced a fine finish to give Community Primary School a 1-0 victory.
The boys from Osun were taught a hard lesson of converting chances when created.
But in the other Group B match, the second Lagos representative, X-Planter Primary School, Ikorodu didn’t have it so good against Paragon Demonstration School from Edo state.
Orobosa Aghahowa scored a stunning goal to give Edo state a well deserved victory.
In group B, defending champions Kaduna, represented by Jafaaru Primary School and Buhanarudeen from Kwara showed class.
The boys from Kaduna thrashed World Book Model School from Rivers State 3-1 while Kwara swept aside St. Augustine Catholic School from Ekiti 3-1.
Also in group C, Ghanaian school, Abeka 4 Basic School played a goalless draw with African Church Primary School from Ogun.
The boys from Islamiya Primary School, Kogi took the advantage to top the table after beating Turaki model school from Sokoto 2-0. Julius Bukie and Nasiru Abdulmajid scored the goals.
The boys from Delta state needed just 10 minutes to seal an opening day win in Group D, against Saint Louis De Seme from Benin Republic.
In the second Group D match, Waziri primary school from Niger state and community primary school from Imo state gave all they had but couldn’t put the ball into the net.
Meanwhile, day two of the competition promises more hostilities among the participating teams.