Another milestone will be achieved in Nigeria Football as the Nationwide League One (NLO) is set to unveil the Title Sponsors of the League and the event will take place at the Top Rank Hotel, Salvation street, Opebi, Ikeja, the capital of Lagos state on Wednesday.
An excited Mohammed Alkali, who is the Independent Chairman of the League body disclosed to the Sporting Press in Abuja that a new dawn is about to be witnessed in the development of the game at the grassroot in Nigeria with the unveiling of the Title Sponsors of the Nationwide League  and it is hoped that this noble partnership will bring more benefits to the players , stakeholders in the league and even the fans .
” We are glad that we will be unveiling the Title Sponsors of the Nationwide League this Wednesday in Lagos and this will pave way for a new development of the round leather game at the cradle of football in Nigeria ” he said.
He added : “The Nationwide League , the third tier of the League in Nigeria has been in discussion with Pipul TV, an indigenous Pay TV company in Nigeria and we will be unveiling the sponsorship package to football loving Nigerians this Wednesday”
In a related development, Shola Ogunnowo, the Chief Operating Officer of the League has said that the Nationwide League will improved on the quality and the organisation of the League , as he praise some of the Nationwide League clubs that played the finals of their respective States F.A. Cup, he particularly singled out the efforts of Spartans FC of Agege , a Nationwide league club  that played the final of Lagos State F.A. Cup on Sunday against MFM, losing 3-1 to the premier league side.
“We hope to improve the organisation of the league and the quality of the football in the League. NLO clubs have actually done well and some of the clubs even played the final of their States F.A. Cup like Spartans FC that lost the F.A. Cup final in Lagos to MFM FC. The team lost 3-1 , but we are very happy with the progress of Spartans FC and other NLO clubs in the Federation” Ogunnowo said.
Meanwhile, the local rivalry between MFM FC and Spartans FC will continue on Wednesday evening when  the Feeder team of MFM FC file out against Spartans FC at the Agege Township Stadium, a game that promises to be a thrilling encounter as the battle of supremacy between the two Agege based teams goes to the Nationwide League arena in the star match of the week one  of the 2016/17 season .

			
			Post Views: 
			73