Share this on WhatsApp




By Lanre Adesanya
Well meaning Nigerians, have been urged to take seriously the benevolent act of caring for the widows and indigent in the society,as 400 women and 20 men got foodstuffs and other welfare packages.
This was the thrust of the keynote address rendered by Mr. Stanley a banker with UBA and a financial consultant,noted that the act is just his own medium to contribute to the society.
The presentation of household sustenance packages and tokens was made to the less privileged at the Methodist Church, Elekuro, Ibadan.
The charitable donations was made to the widows and less privileged by Mr Stanley and friends in memory of Late Juliana Oyedeji.
He enjoined the widows to accept the items which they will be given as humans can only do little to satisfy fellow humans, restating that only God remain the ultimate provider for all beings.
He noted that, “the programme is scheduled to hold for two days,the first day is for daily sustenance material distribution and spiritual upliftment,while the second day affords them opportunity to have their health status checked and benefit from necessary medical counsel and care made available.
Admonishing the beneficiaries, the officiating cleric persuade them to shun wicked ways, cursing, abusing, provocations and all works that are not edifying.
A call was also made for those who desire divine healing from God and they were prayed for as well. They joyfully returned to their seat with an assurance that they have received healing and freedom from all ailments.
Mulika Balogun who benefitted from the largesse said that the programme was not discriminatory as an indiscriminate invitation was made to the needy. She added that she had no affinity whatsoever with the deceased and so also many of the attendees.
A woman whose name is Mrs. Oladeji expressed her gratitude to the initiator of the programme that it is an indication of the good person who the deceased was in her lifetime and appreciated God for the continuity.
Mrs Owolabi, one of the beneficiaries also described Juliana’s demise as a huge loss to the entire Methodist Church and the community.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment