By Inyali Peter, Calabar

Cross River State Governor, Senator Ben Ayade has renamed the state non armed-bearing law enforcement agency, Green Police after the National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Ali Modu Sheriff.

The new name, Green Sheriff came seven months after the Nigeria Police authority decalred that the organization was illegal and threatened to arrest anybody who parades as officer of the force.

Ayade who warned residents to ensure that the state’s cleanliness and greenary status is sustained or be ready to face prosecution however didn’t explain his reason behind the new name.

He said that “Cross River is the cleanest state in Nigeria and unarguably the tourism destination of the country, it is imperative that the cleanliness needs to be sustained.

In doing this, my administration has made it very clear that we will have zero tolerance for an untidy environment as we lay emphasis on cleanliness, knowing full well that cleanliness is next to Godliness”.

The Governor noted that “Green Sheriff” must serve as an environmental neighborhood watch by ensuring that every resident of the state and Calabar in particular keeps his or her environment very clean.”


While calling on properties owners to keep their environment clean he said that “If you are seen littering or dropping sweet wrapper, you will be picked up by Green Sheriff. So ensure that there is no littering as the greenery of Calabar must be sustained.”

The governor disclosed that Calabar has been divided into 39 segments with contractors attached to sustain the environmental policy, posited that.

“We must maintain that dignity, image, class and elegance that Calabar is indeed the cleanest city.

“The Green Sheriff’s responsibilities will include general sanitation check, nursing and planting of trees, ensuring that refuse bins are evacuated as and when due, report erring wastes evacuation contractors as well as arrest persons who litter the environment”, he said.

			
			PV: 
			0