R-L: Mr Suresh Mordani, Corporate Sales Manager; Olawale Jimoh, Marketing Manager; and Mr. Olu Tikolo, Vice President, 
Kia Motors Nigeria.​
 
        Share this on WhatsApp

promises 5-year warranty




By Odunewu Segun
Kia Motors Nigeria took the wraps off of the all-new 2018 Kia Sportage at company’s showroom in Victoria Island, Lagos on Thursday.  Longer, wider and with more power, the new Kia Sportage is set to dominate Nigeria’s compact SUV segment with its competitive pricing and improved efficiency.
The all-new Sportage boasts distinctive and refined enhancements that make it an appealing choice in the compact SUV segment. Its innovative design contributes to a distinctively sporty aesthetic and cutting edge functionality.
Its’ wheelbase has been stretched for a more spacious interior. Under the hood, the Sportage has a 2.0litre engine on the LX and EX with 185hp and 237Nm of torque. The new generation (Sportage) also has more passenger room and cargo volume, with a distinctive exterior design.
The SUV comes with Auto Cruise Control (ACC) Parking Assist System (PAS)  and Vehicle Stability Management (VSM) technology Cutting-edge technology for maximum driving stability, the automatically engaging all-wheel drive (AWD) system senses road conditions, wheel speed and acceleration, then applies the right amount of torque to the front and rear wheels for optimum road grip.
According to the Group Managing Director, Kia Motors Nigeria, Jacky Hathiramani, “the development of the next-generation Sportage began with an in-depth analysis of market trends to best suit the needs of consumers. The thoughtful design, innovative packaging, premium materials, powerful engine and state-of-the art technology all translate into a stunning modern masterpiece of SUVs.”
ALSO SEE: All-new Mercedes-Benz Accelo unveils in Nigeria
He said the all-new Kia Sportage will take the entire auto industry by storm, not just because of its brave and handsome design but also its reengineered technology for optimum performance.
Olu Tikolo, Vice President, Kia Motors Nigeria pointed out that the “aesthetic improvements in design and improved functionality of the all-new Sportage is expected to once again accelerate Kia’s market progress and open a brand new chapter in the company’s history of pioneering the compact urban SUV segment.
Jimoh Olawale, Marketing Manager, stressed that the all-new Kia Sprtage is made in Nigeria and tropicalized for the Nigerian roads.
According to him, Kia motors has also equipped its after sales centres across the nation to an international standard, adding that the centres provide a 24-hour service for all models of the brand.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment