Share this on WhatsApp

dismiss erring staff

By Lanre Adesanya
Lagos State deputy governor, Dr (Mrs) Idiat Adebule, yesterday said the government has spent in the last one year the sum of 10.5 billion naira on infrastructural development in secondary schools.
The deputy governor who doubles as Commissioner for Education also hinted that four teachers have been sanctioned for gross misconduct.
Speaking at the ongoing ministerial press briefing to mark the governor’s second year in office and to account for the ministry’s stewardship in the last one year, the deputy governor stressed that the government is putting in place adequate measures to ensure that secondary schools in the state are given special attention as much as at the primary level, which are crucial stages to higher education.
“The revolution in the sector especially our goal of providing conducive teaching and learning environment by making available adequate educational facilities in our schools is being pursued with renewed vigour.
“A new world class model block of classrooms was introduced in our public schools to improved teaching and learning.”
ALSO SEE: Edo Speaker escapes impeachment
She stated that during the period under review the government rehabilitated/renovated 79 public schools; constructed school wall fence in 16 schools; built six new classroom blocks; deployed furniture for over 48,000 students, 1800 teachers and 100 principals, adding that 346 junior and senior secondary schools benefitted from the supply.
She also noted that 707 double-bunk beds and 469 mattresses were supplied to schools with boarding facilities, stressing that the sum 10.5 billion naira was expended on the projects.
Reacting on the issue of order and discipline in schools, Adebule said four disciplinary cases were decided against erring teachers, who according to her were sanctioned in line with the public service rule.
She maintained that one of the erring teachers was dismissed while three were suspended.
According to her, 85 students’ names have been recorded in black book, which was reintroduced last year in order to scale up measure to contain any form of indiscipline.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment