Share this on WhatsApp



The Director General of the National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, Suleiman Kazaure, has said the scheme will begin to post corps members to farmsas the current batch finishes their three-week orientation.

Kazaure said this in an interview with journalists during his official visit to the NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp in Sagamu on Monday.

According to him, the deployment will be in line with the agricultural development programme of the NYSC.

He said that Bauchi, Oyo, Kebbi and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, had been earmarked for the pilot phase.

“It should interest you to know that the NYSC will soon begin its agricultural development scheme where corps members will be posted to farms for their primary assignments.

“Already the NYSC has acquired active farmlands across the nation’s geopolitical zones with four already fully operational in Kwali, Bauchi, Oyo and Kebbi.

“After this orientation programme for the Batch ‘A’ corps members, we will begin posting some of them to these farms as a pilot phase.

“Though we are starting with four states for now, we will integrate the other states as time goes, the project is on-going,”  Kazaure said.


ALSO SEE: NYSC Diary: Braving the Northern mosquitoes, sun


The NYSC boss had tasked the corps members not to seek white-collar jobs which were non-existent but rather develop their potentials for entrepreneurship excellence.

He said the corps members could begin their journey toward financial independence by tapping into and maximising the benefits of the NYSCs Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Programme.

“The NYSC has provided all the tools and support you need to develop your capacity to the fullest, it now depends on you. There is no short cut to success but by hard work.

“Of all the programmes outlined for you during the orientation, there is none more important that you must fully participate in than the SAED programme.

“I want you to create your own jobs by being creative and innovative, you must strive to be labour employers rather than labour seekers.

“Please don’t look for white-collar jobs, your skills and potentials can serve you better in the way of realising your dreams,” he said.

The SAED programme was made possible by partnership with public and private sector organisations to build entrepreneurial capacity.

Gladys Mbachi, the Ogun Coordinator of 
the NYSC, thanked the director general for the visit and emphasis on SAED programme.

“Already, we are helping the corps members with the SAED programme in earnest.

“Our objective is to expose their talents to where they fit so that when they go out there, they will be able to build on what we have given them,” Mbachi said.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment