Share this on WhatsApp


His Excellency, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, the Executive Governor of Kogi State is pleased to reaffirm his commitment towards ensuring safety and security for the indigenes and inhabitants of the State. He hereby reiterates his firm commitment to ensuring continuous security and safety of lives and properties in the State as he vows not to relent in his administration’s lofty strides to taking the fight to the enemies of the State.

The Governor notes that he is fully aware of the antics of those enraged by the audacious move of his administration to destroy criminal hideouts and properties of criminals in the State.

The Governor expresses his awareness about the financiers and backers of these criminals committed to foisting mayhem on the people, noting that he is not oblivious of the fact that they are still out there, whilst they are erroneously thinking they are far away from the reach of the long arm of the Law. He however vows that whoever they are, wherever they may be, his government would be going after them and bringing them to justice.

Having observed that it is the intention of these criminal elements to keep Kogites in a perpetual state of fear by orchestrating fresh moves to unleash a reign of terror, Governor Bello declares that their plots will be overwhelmingly resisted. He therefore states that neither crime nor a reign of terror would be tolerated in Kogi State.

ALSO SEE: Obaseki shuts down Edo Line

 All law-abiding citizens and residents in the State are urged to remain calm, go about their legitimate businesses and report all suspicious activities to security agencies to carry out necessary investigations and address appropriately.

In a similar vein, the Governor hereby directs a concerted strengthening of the existing curfew in Kogi Central senatorial district and whoever runs foul of this directive should be made to face the severe consequences of their actions.

He states equally that custodians of masquerades in the senatorial district are to take note by this Statement that masquerade activities remains banned till further notice. Anyone who runs fowl of this directive shall be brought to book for disrupting the public peace and obstruction of communal serenity, as a safe Kogi State which is a prerequisite for development and peaceful living would not be compromised under any guise, no matter whose ox is gored.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment