The newest flagship smartphones from Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., the Galaxy S8 and S8+, have been launched into the Nigerian market, following their unveiling at the company’s unpacked event in New York.
The Galaxy S8 and S8+ feature polished metal chassis covered by curved Gorilla Glass 5 on the front and back. The devices are available inMidnight Black, Orchid Gray and Maple Gold colours with internal memory of 64GB and up to 256GB microSD support.
The Nigerian launch event took place at the Renaissance Hotel, GRA, Ikeja, Lagos, recently.
Boasting some of the largest wrap-around screens ever made, the long-awaited Galaxy S8 and S8+ come with 5.8-inch (14.73 cm) and 6.2-inch (15.75 cm) curved screens, respectively.
Both devices have 1,440X2,960 screen resolution and are equipped 3,000mAh and 3,500mAh batteries, respectfully.
The display quality is Super AMOLED, featuring a new design named “infinity display”, which wraps around the devices in a smooth, perfectly curved pristine end-to-end screen, giving it a perfect symmetry while eliminating the bezels.
Thanks to the new display, the physical home button usually located in the front of the phone has been replaced with a digital home button, built in the glass. Both devices feature a rear mounted fingerprint reader, quite close to the camera lens.
Speaking at the launch event, Mr. Paul Lee, managing firector, Samsung Electronics West Africa, said, “Samsung consistently pushes the boundaries of possibilities with a focus of unlocking value by delivering products that are, not only stunning to look at but, also comfortable to hold.”
“The launch of these smartphones marks the beginning of a new era of smartphone devices without edges or limits. This is a new way for our consumers to experience the world, capture every moment and share every memory through a device that is sleek and small enough to fit into their hands, but big enough to contain everything needed for work and play,” Mr. Lee stated.
The Galaxy S8 and S8+ come with exciting new features for remarkable user experience. The extended screen is perfect for multitasking.
Users can open their favorite IM app whilst watching a video simultaneously, by using Multi Window; this is same for typing text with the full keyboard without having to hide the video.
ALSO SEE: Samsung unveils Galaxy S7 Edge and Galaxy S7 to redefine the mobile experience
The smartphones offer five types of security technologies: iris recognition, face recognition, pattern, password, and PIN; users can easily choose their preferred method.
Users can use the iris scanner to unlock their devices without having to swipe the phone. With Face Recognition, users can instantly unlock their devices with just a look even without the PIN or pattern; simply look into the camera on the lock screen and the device is unlocked.
The Galaxy S8 and S8+ 12 MP rear camera utilizes Dual Pixel technology for incredibly fast autofocus, allowing users capture important moments.
Thanks to the F1.7 lens, pictures appear bright and crisp even if taken in low-light environments. Samsung did revamp the front-facing camera to an 8MP with auto focus. This will definitely excite ‘selfie queens and kings’ as pictures come out sharp and vibrant.
Similar to the Galaxy S7 and S7 Edge, the Galaxy S8 and S8+ are IP68-certified for dust and water. This feature protects the device from immersion in up to 1.5m of fresh water for 30 minutes, allowing users capture memories at pool parties or on the beach with loved ones.
Mr. Emmanouil Revmatas, ‎director and business leader, Information Technology and Mobile,  said that Samsung is delighted about these smartphones as they display the company’s heritage of great innovation and stunning design, and will continue to define barriers and ensure that consumers get the best out of their devices.‎
“The revolutionary design of the Galaxy S8 and S8+ smartphones begins from inside out. These devices come with several amazing features, including the infinity display which gives an incredible full screen experience and fits comfortably in the hands. The bezels have been removed to provide more space for things that matter and the bigger immersive screen that allow users multi-task seamlessly; chat while watching a video. These innovations will change the way users see their smartphones and everything in it,” Revmatas concluded.

			
			Post Views: 
			197