Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
The God’s Kingdom Society, an international Christian organisations with headquarters at Salem City, Delta state has described Christmas as a pagan festival that has nothing to do with Jesus Christ. 
Delivering a sermon at the Church’s Freedom Day celebration recently titled ‘There is Nothing Hidden That Shall Not Be Revealed’ to commemorate the birth of Jesus Christ in October, Station Minister, GKS Lagos zone, Brother Timothy Esimagbele said Christmas was an ancient festival dedicated to the god Saturn, and was later adopted by early Christian leaders with the motive of converting the pagans.
Brother Esimagbele said GKS through assiduous study of the bible knew the truths about Jesus birth, and that is why every October, members and friends of the GKS celebrate ‘Freedom Day’ in commemoration of the birth of Jesus Christ
Buttressing the October date with biblical facts, Assistant Station Minister for Lagos zone, Brother Isaac Ennang said in the sixth month of Elizabeth’s conception (December), the angel Gabriel was sent to  virgin called Mary to give her the message that by the miracle of God, she would conceive and bear to be called Jesus.
Brother Ennang said according to the gospel of Luke 1: 30, 40, and 56, Mary stayed with Elizabeth for about three months—January to March. “The angel appeared to Mary in the sixth month of Elizabeth’s conception and Mary went stayed three months; six plus three equal nine when Elizabeth gave birth in April.”  
ALSO SEE: Internet warriors replace Maina with Doguwa
“Having been equipped with this knowledge, let us now count Mary’s conception from January as was manifested in Elizabeth declaration, we will arrive at September as the nine month then in the tenth month, October, Jesus was born”
He also said the facts that churches observed the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ in April, confirmed that his birth could not have been in December.
“We all agreed that Jesus lived for 33 years and half years. Now let us admit he was born in December as some churches teach, it will mean, therefore, that his 33rd birthday fell in December, and six months later, that is , in June, he was crucified, which is not true.”
Brother Ennang explained that with Jesus 33rd birth anniversary being in October, and six months later will be in April, this argument, he said pointed to the fact that Jesus was Born in October, and not in December.
In his own message read by Brother Esimagbele, President of God’s Kingdom Society, Brother Godwin Ifeacho said those who give themselves to various sinful practices, should retrace their steps and repent for their own good.
He said the birth of Jesus Christ was no doubt a world event, and that was the gospels do not leave us in doubt about the universal scope of his mission. He advises followers of Christ to serve in sincerity and in truth and do so until the end for their blessings and salvation in the world to come.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment