Share this on WhatsApp
By Inyali Peter, Calabar
Cross River State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on Nigerians to look beyond the challenges facing the country and continue to preach and live in peace.
In a statement signed by the state party chairman, Mr. John Ochala to mark Nigeria’s 57th independence anniversary, the party also urged Nigerians to be patriotic citizen who love their country and not people who believe they are better apart.
The APC Chairman noted that one of the challenges drawing Nigeria backward is that not so many people including those in leadership positions believe and love the country which is why must leaders are so committed to looting than developing the country.
The party commended the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari to build a prosperous, United and peaceful Nigeria.
According to the statement “We congratulate Nigeria and Nigerians for the journey so far. It has not been easy but we need to take the positives and continue to see reasons to live in peace as well as love our dear country.
“The single bane to Nigeria development is that most Nigerians don’t think and act as people who believe in this country that is why you see people loot this nation like Nigeria will vanish from the surface of the earth. Some leaders are more united in looting than developing the country.
“We sincerely commend the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari so far. His policy on agriculture is paying off as our economy is now gradually moving away from over dependent on oil. His anti-corruption war which has given Nigeria a good image in the international community, job creation through the N-Power and many others.
“The truth is that as a country, we are not yet where we want to be but we are definitely not where we used to be therefore we have every reason to be thankful to God for everything. For us, our greatest achievement is remaining together as one indivisible nation and we commend President Buhari efforts in this regard”.
ALSO SEE: Too much money: See how Kogi plans to share N4.2 b
The statement added that “We want to urge Nigerians to use the event of our 57th anniversary as an independent Nation to begin to think about Nigeria and not religion or ethnic background. We are better together than ever apart”.
Speaking about the state, the party encouraged all party faithfuls to be positive minded as the Governor Ben Ayade led Government have not done enough to deserve a second term.
“The Leadership of APC in Cross River is doing everything possible to marry various tendencies and ensure that the party takes advantage of the Mis-Governance of Sen. Ben Ayade.
“We wish all our members, Stake Holders and the entire country a happy Independence Anniversary”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment