Share this on WhatsApp



 
The 4th Global Business Forum on Africa (GEFA), is set to host five African heads of state with President Muhammadu Buhari’s name conspicuously missing on the list.
The froum, organised by the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry slated for 1st and 2nd of November, 2017 will also host 12 ministers, and more than 1,000 top-level government and corporate decision-makers and industry experts. 
The event will bring together high-profile attendees such as H.E. Paul Kagame, President of the Republic of Rwanda; H.E. Danny Faure, President of the Republic of Seychelles; H.E. Yoweri Museveni, President of the Republic of Uganda; H.E. Ameenah Gurib-Fakim, President of the Republic of Mauritius; and H.E. Edgar Lungu, President of Zambia; along with a long list of ministers, senior government officials, young African entrepreneurs, economic and industry experts.
The two-day event with the theme ‘Next Generation Africa’ will examine the current economic outlook for the continent, and explore prospects for its development, as well as investment opportunities and the potential for forging partnerships between African businesses and their UAE counterparts.
Hamad Buamim, President and CEO of the Dubai Chamber, noted that the timing of the forum is ideal as Africa is currently witnessing a sizeable uptick in private-sector led development and investment opportunities.
ALSO SEE: I’m done with PDP – Obasanjo tells Makarfi
He said “This year’s Global Business Forum on Africa is drawing an unprecedented top-tier attendance, including distinguished African heads of state and ministers, to discuss a variety of key trends that are expected to drive Africa’s next phase of economic growth, as well as challenges and opportunities that fast-growing markets on the continent are experiencing”.
The two-day event welcomes a host of ministers from various African countries, including Benin, Burkina Faso, Gambia, Ghana, Malawi, Mali, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sudan, Uganda and Zambia.
National Daily gathered that the Dubai Chamber of Commerce & Industry established in 1965, is a non-profit public entity, whose mission is to represent, support and protect the interests of the business community in Dubai by creating a favourable business environment, supporting the development of business, and by promoting Dubai as an international business hub.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment