Share this on WhatsApp

The Eti-Osa bye election held to fill the vacant seat in the Lagos State House of Assembly  witnessed  a low turn out, as APC candidate Noheem Adams wins having polled  4,204 votes out of the 6169 total  votes cast.

He was declared winner by the Returning Officer Professor Oyeyemi Oyedola at the Lagos State Model Nursery and Primary school Eti-Osa LGA,  the collation centre.

The total of registered voters according to the statistics released by INEC is 183,55,while 6,280 were accredited voters,154 votes were rejected and 6,015 valid votes cast,which brings the percentage of turn out to 3.42 percent.

Aside the major contending political parties – PDP and APC the other seven parties who also fielded candidates barely polled few votes which placed them wide apart.

The  major polling booths visited had lesser than 3 percent of expected eligible voters exercising their rights to vote as at 1pm.


Some of the party agents who with spoke newsmen, noted that the apathy was largely due to the parochial nature of some voters who already decided not vote not that they were adequately sensitized.

Dare Oladeinde,one of the Peoples Democratic Party agents, noted that, “people have not been coming out to vote,at least we have tried to canvass people to come out and vote but they are not coming.

“In polling booth 027A and 027B at Abraham Adesanya Estate on Ajiwe  Village Ogonbo axis where 726 registered voters were expected , 1pm no voter has yet voted, in the unit.

ALSO SEE: Buhari intimidates Fayose

A barely two voters have voted, maybe because of the situation of the country they don’t want to come out any more,I am afraid what 2019 would look like.

An APC agent Imede David in Ajiwe polling booth 027C and D, a total of 890 registered voters  were expected.

He  noted that, “turn out has been very low but people have been coming,it is just low, 20 have voted so  far here, no challenges, from what I understand the voter apathy should be due to low publicity,no much sensitization here.


At Igbo Efon polling booth 083 Ilado Eti-Osa where 1253 registered voters were expected as at press time barely 24 voters had come to vote.

According to the Presiding officer in unit 004A Igbo Efon,having sorted and counted the votes, APC has 5 votes, PPA 1,PDP16,AD1,in unit 004C AD 3,PDP 18,APC 7.

Tunde Olukolu a voter noted that the process was indeed fast and peaceful.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment