Mr Ademola Odunade, the President of a Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan, on Tuesday, dissolves a 12-year-old marriage between the petitioner, Mrs Bunmi Olatunji and her husband Samuel Olatunji over his hooliganism.

It was gathered that the woman, a housewife and mother of three, had approached the court to dissolve her union with Samuel Olatunji, accusing him of hooliganism and irresponsibility.

Odunade, having heard the case and various submission agreed that things had completely fallen apart irretrievably between the couple, hence the need for the marriage dissolution.

“In the interest of peace, the union between Bunmi and Samuel has ceased to be henceforth.

“Bunmi will take custody of the last two children and Samuel will take custody of the first.

“Samuel will pay a monthly feeding allowance of N8,000 for the upkeep of the two children in addition to being responsible for their education and other welfare,” the court president said.

In her petition to the court, the woman claimed she earned her livelihood as a hair stylist, and her husband, Samuel, was a hooligan and lacked any sense of responsibility.




“Maybe I would have had a change of mind if I had known that Samuel was going to be a hooligan 12 years ago when I was exchanging conjugal vows with him on the altar.

“Shortly after our wedding, Samuel started showing the stuff he is made of through his acts of hooliganism.

“Whenever Samuel is not in the police cell for causing violence, he will be in the hospital, receiving medical treatment for the injuries sustained in violent fights.


ALSO SEE:Nigeria ready to tackle US, UK, others over visa delay


“As if that is not enough, he lacks every sense of responsibility that any good husband should have.

“Samuel neither takes care of me nor our three children; rather, after getting intoxicated with alcoholic drinks, he turns me into a punching bag.

“In a nutshell, I am completely tired of his troubles and I no longer love him; please, separate us,” Bunmi pleaded.

However, Samuel, who agreed to the divorce, said the wife was lying as he disagreed with all the allegations brought against him.

“My lord, Bunmi is a dirty drunk, who is not fit to be a housewife anyway; she neglects all her other conjugal responsibilities and starves me of sex, which is supposed to be one of her primary responsibilities.

“Without any further wasting of time my lord, I am no more interested in having Bunmi under my roof, separate us,” Samuel said.

National Daily gathered that prior to the dissolution of the marriage on Tuesday, Bunmi had moved out of her matrimonial home at Ita Bale, Ibadan and is residing at Mokola area of the metropolis.


			
			Post Views: 
			155