Share this on WhatsApp

By Chioma Obinagwam

More winners have emerged from the ongoing Access Bank Family Fortune Promo as the Bank rewards 118 customers in the second monthly selection of winners.

The event which held at the Bank’s Alausa Branch in Ikeja produced 50 customers who won DSTV decoders while another 30 got N50,000 worth of shopping vouchers. Also, 20 customers won Samsung mobile phones, 10 customers won Home Theatres, 5 customers won 49 inch LED televisions and 3 customers each won 7-seater home furniture (sofa).

At the launch of the Promo in June, the Bank promised to reward its consumers with over 100,000 gifts, specifically to family units through weekly, monthly and the mega random selections. The Promo tagged ‘Save Today, Take Tomorrow’ ultimately aimed at stimulating a savings culture between families does not leave the kids out, as scholarships are up for grabs. Other fantastic prizes include family holidays, 16KVA generators and brand new cars.

Speaking at the second monthly random selection of winners, Group Head, Inclusive Banking, Ope Wemi-Jones, said the Promo had attracted a large number of participants from across the country while, winners had emerged from previous random selections in Lekki, Port Harcourt, Ibadan and Abuja.

Mrs Wemi-Jones said, “The promo was designed to reward the collective savings habit of families with grand prizes and competitive interest rates while they enjoy the confidentiality of their banking transactions as individuals.”

In line with the objectives of the Access Bank’s Family Fortune Promo, the chances of a family winning are quite high while all the winners from the selection met the Promo criteria which include achieving a minimum balance at the qualifying level of N150,000.00.  The fund is required as a cumulative balance across family members accounts with each member having a minimum balance of N20,000 to qualify for the Family Fortune Promo.

The mega random selection is scheduled to hold in December, 2017 where three families will each go home as proud winners of a house.
Share this on WhatsApp