Share this on WhatsApp
By OKOSUN DENNIS

A 52-year-old woman, Christiana Ojukwu appealed to the Chief Magistrate of the Isolo Magistrate Court not to allow her lover go without paying her all she had invested in him.
She also pleaded with the court to compel her lover, Gerald Onuimo to marry her.

The accused, Gerald Onuimo, had moved out of their two bed room flat at Isolo to marry a much younger woman on the ground that Christiana was too old to be presented to his family members.

A much furious Christiana had sought the help of the police to help her recover her money, after she explained to have invested so much in her lover with a promise to marry her.




However, Gerald was said to have refused to marry the lady against his promise to her.
While the woman is demanding for N600,000 invested on the man, Gerald, the defendant begged for time to pay up the money.

National Daily gathered that when all efforts made by the police to recover the money failed, the only choice was to charge the matter to court.

A visibly angry Christiana pleaded with the court not to allow him go without paying up her money.

In her defence she insited that Gerald cannot dumped her at that stage for another woman after she did all her best to satisfy the defendant both financially and sexually.


ALSO SEE: Drama in senate as Senator Melaye sheds tears over unpaid workers salaries in Kogi


While given an option to resolving the problem, Christiana, therefore, urged the court to either order Gerald to send his latest wife away or refund all the money he had collected from her.

She said that she had given Gerald the sum of N600,000 in 2006, an amount which she claimed had not been repaid.

In his defence, Gerald had also insisted that he had offered her enough services in lieu for her money.

He also said that all efforts made at convincing his family to accept her as his wife were bluntly refused claiming she was older than him.

Gerald, also admitted that since he entered into the relationship, he has been in bondage as he was not allowed to talk to any other woman.

Gerald further explained that he was trapped in the relationship because he could not present her to his family or move forward.

Although he pleaded not guilty before the presiding Magistrate, Mrs A.K Shonubi, he was granted bail in the sum of N100,000 with two sureties in like sum and remanded in prison custody pending when he perfected his bail condition.

The presiding Magistrate, Mrs A.K Shonubi, thereafter, adjourned the matter till November 21, 2017 for trial.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment