Share this on WhatsApp
 
With Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) announcement that Nigeria stocks would remain part of its frontier index, demands from foreign investors as well as tactical local market participants, National Daily gathered are going to spur positive sentiments in short term.
A handful of foreign investors had waited on the side-lines in anticipation of the final MSCI announcement The decision was hinged on improved FX liquidity in the Nigeria market, likely related to improved FX transactions at the “Investors and Exporters” (IE) window.
With the reassurance that investors can complete their transactions at a market determined exchange rate, National Daily gathered from experts that the country would see further influx of capital into the equities market. 
Currently, foreign portfolio managers tracking the MSCI Frontier Market index allocates weights varying from 3.98% to 4.99% compared to the 7.96% benchmark weight of the MSCI frontier index.
This implies that these fund managers are still significantly underweight. Thus, we expect underweighted fund managers to rebalance their portfolios in favour of the Nigeria market. This will consequently improve sentiments and demand for Nigerian equities.
ALSO SEE: NIMASA reveals how Customs killed West Atlantic Shipyard, Onne
MSCI had previously announced in June 2016 that it was considering Nigeria for a possible downgrade to stand-alone status, highlighting deteriorating FX liquidity as well as FX restrictions as key concerns. 
This development led to a massive outflow of capital from the Nigeria equities market – Market capitalization declined by 17.14%. Until now, the decision whether or not to retain Nigeria in its Frontier Market Index has been a recurring theme in the Nigerian equity market space among both local and foreign institutional investors.
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in April, 2017 established the IE window that allowed for FX transactions at market determined rates in a bid to ease the concerns of foreign investors.
Consequently, the MSCI decision on whether to retain Nigeria in its Frontier market indexes in June, 2017, was postponed to ascertain the effectiveness of the IE window. Unequivocally, the MSCI’s decision to retain Nigeria in the Frontier index reflects the success and effectiveness of the IE window.
Share this on WhatsApp