Share this on WhatsApp
The Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission (KPCACC) have been drilled on how to tackle corruption at the EFCC Academy, Karu, Abuja.

The training session was supervised by the Acting Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC) Ibrahim Magu. 

Magu, who disclosed this during the opening ceremony of a five-day intensive training programme on Anti-corruption and self-defence, advised KPCACC officials to initiate moves towards having a good working relationship, in terms of capacity building with the judiciary since the sector is key to the fight against corruption.

Represented by the Acting Commandant of the EFCC Academy, David Tukura, he  explained that If thet fail to develop a judicial system that is just and ready to complement your efforts in the fight against corruption, they may end up being frustrated at the end of the day”, he said.

The EFCC boss further stressed the readiness of the agency to collaborate with other states, agencies and international bodies that might wish to take advantage of the “state of the art” infrastructures at the EFCC Academy in capacity building.

“We are by all standards the best in Nigeria when it comes to the area of training on economic and financial crimes” Magu said.

He urged the participants to imbibe the attitude of the EFCC operatives which has served as its strength in discharging its duties without fear or favour.

Executive Chairman, KPCACC, Muhuyi Magaji Rimin Gado, in his remark thanked the EFCC Chairman for the support.

“This is the first time in history, the Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission is allowed to carry out the diligent recruitment of 140 staff under-going training at the EFCC Academy presently which is the outcome of the advice from the EFCC boss”, he said.

ALSO SEE: FG compounds Atiku woes, seals Intels office

He advised the participants to be committed to all the activities during the training as well as abhor all forms of corruption in the conduct of their duties.

“As some of you already know our position on zero tolerance for corruption, I have sacked staff because of N3,000”, he warned.

He used the opportunity to commend the state governor for the unwavering support and provision of all needed tools and logistics for the Commission to carry out its mandate.

The Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, represented by the State’s Head of Service, Mohammed Awwal Naiya, expressed delight over the assistance rendered by the EFCC in providing training for the officials of the KPCACC at the Commission’s prestigious Academy.

“The innovations introduced by the present administration of His Excellency, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje in the fight against corruption in Kano state has yielded so many positive results”, he said.

On the scope of the Commission’s activities, he said that the KPCACC covers the entire 44 local governments of the State.

According to him, “KPCACC so far, has recovered over half N500 million aside several cases of corruption it is prosecuting in various courts.

He advised the participants to justify the huge investment expended on them by the government by ensuring increased productivity after their training.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment