In his usual vibrancy and consistency in putting his people first, Hon. (Engr) Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, representing Oredo Federal Constituency of Edo State. Moved a motion on behalf of Edo State Caucus of the House on the high level of insecurity in his Constituency and the State at Large. Pls find below details of his motion as passed by the house on this all important subject as it affects all Edo indigenes and residents.
MOTION: Need to Check the Incessant Kidnaping and Assassination in Benin City and Edo State at Large.
Lead Sponsor: Hon. (Engr) Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama.
Co-Sponsors: Hon. Peter Akpatason, Hon. Sergius Ogun.
The House:
Notes: the precarious security situation in Benin City and environs over the past weeks;
Aware: that the primary objective of government is to ensure security and welfare of citizens, a responsibility that cannot be compromised by leaderships at all levels;
ALSO SEE: Justice Gladys Olotu’s case and NJC’s multiple standards
Informed: of the following unfortunate incidences within a span of two (2) weeks:
(a) ​Rev. Fr Lawrence Adorolo of St. Benedict Catholic Church, Auchi Diocese who was kidnaped on 27th September, 2017;
(b) ​Mr Andy Ehanire, the CEO of Ogba zoo who was kidnaped on 24th September, 2017 with three (3) policemen attached to the Zoo being killed in the process and their arms carted away by the kidnappers;
(c) ​Amb. Osayomore Joseph, a renowned Bini musician who was kidnaped on 3 October, 2017; and
(d) ​Professor Paul Otasowie of the Electrical Engineering Department, University of Benin who was killed on 4 October, 2017 while being kidnaped;
Concerned: that the upsurge of kidnaping, killings and other unreported criminal activities that are being carried out freely by well-armed bandits in Benin City and other parts of Edo State is leaving residents with deep apprehension;
Convinced: of the need to urgently call the attention of the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies to beef up security and increase surveillance in Benin City and other parts of Edo State in order to arrest the reign of terror in the State;
Resolves to:
(i)​ call on the Inspector General of Police for immediate intervention to secure the release of all kidnaped victims and the arrest of the culprits;
ALSO SEE: NJC and The Olotu Integrity Test
(ii)​ also call on the Inspector General of Police to urgently beef up security and increase surveillance in Benin City and Edo State in general to guarantee the safety of lives and property of residents;
(iii) ​further call on the Inspector General of Police to carry out an audit of policing activities in Benin City and Edo State in general;
(iv)​ mandate the Committees on Police Affairs and National Security and Intelligence to ensure compliance.
Hon. (Engr) Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama moved the Motion, Hon. Muazu Hassan seconded.
In leading the debate Hon. Ogbeide-Ihama decried the high insecurity and threat to life of citizens in Edo State due to incessant killing and kidnapping in the State and urged the House as the people’s Parliament to ensure that Government carries out its primary responsibility of securing lives and property. He lamented that sad situation where families live in fear and the premature death of the Professor whose wife and children now fall unfortunately as widow and fatherless respectively. He pointed out how important it is to him that his constituents are safe and can go about their daily business without fear of being kidnapped. His motion and prayers was put to vote and got the support of all members and motion was unanimously passed as moved by Hon. (Engr) Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama.

			
			Post Views: 
			334