Share this on WhatsApp






The Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) certified elected member of the Lagos State House of Assembly to represent Eti-Osa 1 constituency, Hon. Noheem Adams Babatunde has been sworn in as full fledge lawmaker in replacement of the late Hon. Kareem Alimi,who died after brief illness on 18th July, 2017.


It would be recalled that Noheem’s certificate of returns was issued immediately after the September 30th bye-election and a letter forwarded to the clerk of the house, authenticating the issuance by the Lagos State INEC Resident Commissioner.

 Over 100 days prior the replacement the constituency lacks representation at the state legislature.


Speaking after the swearing-in, which took place at exactly 3:15pm during plenary on Monday, the Speaker of the Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa prayed that the tenure of the lawmaker would bring development to the state and the country in general.

The new lawmaker on the sideline however, empathize with the families of the late legislator and the 8th Assembly while stating his resolve to help deliver the dividend of democracy through committed discharge of his legislative duties.

Hon. Naheem Babatunde Adams an indigene of Lagos State born on the 15th of April 1980 in Lagos Island to the families of Adams Owoseni and Oketiri of Addo land and Imam Arafa Shitta Eletu Ogudu Chieftaincy family Ogombo with a blood link to the lineage of Olufunmi family of Shangotedo all in Eti osa of Lagos State.Adams is happily married to Mrs Oluwaseun Mariam Adams and blessed with children.

He has gathered close to a decade of work and career experience in LIRS with a penchant for political activism and pro democracy advocacy.

He started his career in politics as an undergraduate.

In 2003, he became the representative of Accountancy Department  in the Students Parliamentary Council SPC of the LASU students union in his 100 level, Assistant General Secretary of Faculty of Management Sciences Student Association in 200 level, Clerk of the SPC in 300 level, Chairman of of the students union electoral committee in 400 level and went ahead to conduct a credible election that drew uncommon commendations  from stakeholders of the institution

 As a lover of pragmatic leadership, he joined the mainstream progressive politics of SOUTH West Nigeria as a member of the Action Congress in the early 2000’s and has remained steadfast as a supporter and loyalist through the Action Congress and up to the present erase of the All Progressives Congress APC.

As a grassroots leader, devout Muslim and one given to community service, Noheem Adams has enjoyed commendations and appreciation from far and wide, some of which include; member of Baale in council of Ogombo family in Eti osa, the Asiwaju of Ogombo land, the Saraki Adinni of Ridwanulahi mosque of Ogombo, Arowoshadi of Morkaz, Ogombo and Baba Adinni of Alasalatu Al Awan Islamic Society of Nigeria.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment