Share this on WhatsApp



By Odinta Oluma Christiana
The Lagos State police command has arrested two Uber drivers who specialised in robbing women of their valuables at gunpoint.
The drivers, Fosta Rufus , 30 and Franklin Jogbodo, according to the Special Anti Robbery
squad boss, Mohammed Sanusi , picked up their targets around Lekki, Ajah and Victoria Island areas of Lagos.
This is the second of such arrest of Uber drivers in Lagos. It was gathered that the
suspects were accused of robbing their victims of valuables such as jewelry, expensive phones. cash and their victims are mainly ladies who go out at night.
Lagos State police boss, Imohimi Edgal, who paraded the suspects at the Command
Headquarters, Ikeja, said the suspects sometimes would follow their victims to an
ATM machine from where they would force them to withdraw cash at gunpoint.
He added that the suspects have admitted participating in three different robbery  operations in the past. “ On one occasion the suspects collected the sum of N86 ,000 from
their victim using her Access Bank ATM. They have both confessed to the crime . ”
ALSO SEE: Police captures four armed robbers
He said that a KIA Rio with registration number BDG 376 EP used in perpetrating the crime and other valuables, which including Samsung Galaxy 7 edge plus and iPhone 6 plus, allegedly collected from their victims identified as Nancy Nzuegbo and Eze Chinonso, were recovered from the suspects.
The Lagos police boss said he has directed all Area Commanders and Divisional Police Officers to maintain police visibility in major roads and neighbourhood across the
metropolis.
“ I have also directed them to carry out constant raids of back spots. We hope to sustain the current low crime rate in the state ” he said.
In his confessional statement , Franklin denied robbing anybody , saying it was his friend ,
Fosta who dragged him into the problem. He said he was the one who introduced Fosta into
the Uber cab business.
According to him “ I et Fosta while working with UBA as a driver . I met him again
sometime this year. I helped him to register as an Uber drive . It was him who collected the phones that were found on us from some ladies.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment