Share this on WhatsApp

By OKOSUN DENNIS

The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt Gen Tukur Buratai, on Tuesday in Epe task personnel of the Nigerian Army participating in “Operation Crocodile Smile 2” to be more aggressive and work on intelligence reports by other sister security agencies to rout criminal elements in the area.

While addressing troops of 65 and Special Forces Battalions, Gen Buratai charged them to maintain high standard of discipline noting that “this is an exercise met to train you and you must be proficient.

“The report from the Sector Commander is impressive. Your welfare and logistics would be provided. I appreciated your efforts and I know all of you have participated in one exercise or the other,” Buratai reiterated.


The Chief of Army Staff, was briefed on arrival at the Tactical Headquarters, Sector 1 by Brig Gen Attu, on the successes and constraints about the ongoing Operation.


Gen Buratai, as part of the Corporate Social Responsibility of the army and to galvanise seamless Civil-Military cooperation denoted customised “Crocodile Smile 11” notebooks to the Royal Highness Oba Abdulrafiu Balogun Ishola, the Elejirin of Ejirin.

Expressing satisfaction, especially with the visit of the Army Chief to his domain, Oba Abdulrafiu Balogun Ishola, noted that the presence of the army has helped in making them sleep with their two eyes closed as kidnappers made the town a piece of hell for them before the exercise began.


ALSO SEE: Bayelsa community lauds Dickson, police for resettlement


He appealed to Gen Buratai to have a permanent army base in his kingdom, stressing that they would make land available to the army to build a barrack for the troops.


“Around October to December, 2016 and early part of 2017, it was hell for us here. We could not sleep with our eyes closed as kidnappers swooped on the villagers abducting people without any resistance.

“Since the military came here, we have been having peace. We appreciate you for saving our lives and we want to appeal to the Chief of Army Staff to leave his men permanently here.

“We assure you of maximum cooperation and would provide you with land to build barracks for your men, Oba Ishola reiterated.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment