Share this on WhatsApp



 
President Muhammadu Buhari has forwarded the name of Mrs. Aishah Ahmad to the Senate for confirmation as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN.
Aishah Ahmad who is known for her exploits both as a financial expert and as a champion for women’s cause is expected to replace former CBN Deputy Governor, who retired early in the year.
Prior to this appointment she was Chairman of women in Management, Business & Public Service (WEMBIZ) and was head of retail banking at Diamond Bank  where she was responsible for the bank’s strategic retail products as well as customer segments which includes consumer banking, private wealth management, and direct sales agent network; all of which cater for over 5 million customers.
She is a member and a beneficiary of awards from Chartered Financial Analysts (CFA) – which prides itself as ‘the most respected and recognized investment management designation in the world’; and also Chartered Alternative Investment Analysts (CAIA).
ALSO SEE: FCMB rolls out #FLEXXTERN 2.0 Initiative
Her educational achievements include: an MSc in Finance and Management at Cranfield School of Management (UK), an MBA (Master of Business Administration) in Finance at the University of Lagos; she also holds a graduate degree in Accounting from the University of Abuja. All of these have, indisputably, helped shape and develop her investment and management skills.
According to statement by Buhari’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the president presented Mrs. Ahmad’s name to the senate in accordance with the provisions of “Section 8(1) (2) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (Establishment) Act 2007.”
The statement quoted the President as urging the Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, “To consider the expeditious confirmation of Mrs Ahmad, who would then resume work immediately.”
Also Buhari has written to the Senate, seeking the confirmation of the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Committee of the CBN.
The statement said they are to replace “four members, whose tenure expires at the end of this year.”
Those nominated include: Professor Adeola Festus Adenikinju; Dr Aliyu Rafindadi Sanusi; Dr Robert Chikwendu Asogwa and Dr Asheikh A. Maidugu.
“After Senate clearance, the new members of the Monetary Policy Committee are to resume duties next January,” the statement added.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment