Share this on WhatsApp









Rotary Club of Nigeria has urged the political class and all well meaning Nigerians  to invest in the social development by partnering voluntary organisations such as rotary club to make the country a better place for all.

Mr Kofoworola Oladeinde, the newly installed President of Rotary Club, Ajuwon District-a border area between Ogun and Lagos State-made the appeal during his installation ceremony as the 24th President of Rotary Club.

According to him, rotary club’s services prides humanity welfare higher than personal enrichment as providing  community service is above self to humanity.






“We know we cannot do it all that is why we have a synergy between members and the community as well as well meaning Nigerians both home and abroad. We partner to ensure that we affect our community positively.
“For instance, our new goal is to refurbish the science laboratory at Ajuwon High School. We don’t just donate; we stay and ensure the project is delivered. We are determined t o give the school a brand new laboratory.
“ This installation is an avenue through which we also raise our funds as those attending pay before entering, the funds are what we use to execute our projects and we have people that are in need this informs the fund raising idea, we all make selfless contribution for the good of all, in Rotary we are all volunteers.
Oladeinde also call for partnership of well to do individuals in the society stating the financial rectitude of the district in project execution.
“The world would be a better place if government and rich individuals in the society partners with us, we do due diligence before any project is done and execute to the last kobo.
ALSO SEE: Kaduna teachers begin fasting, praying as Gov. El Rufai ready to sack
“For instance our National President challenged every Rotarians to plant a tree to mitigate the alarming effect of the global earth warming, this act will go a long way in addressing the problem,. Said Oladeinde
Speaking about the challenges facing the club,Oladeinde noted that, “increasing membership has been a challenge in our District, ordinarily people should not be persuaded before they join because of the good deed but there is this misconception, that it is for big and rich men, a cult and all that ,no!
“It is an open society so we urge the press to help sell the idea better to the people. In this clime people hardly do things selflessly; most times they expect something in return,”He said.



The event also featured the induction of the board of directors for 2017/2018 and the N5 million Fund Raising for Projects.







Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment