Controversy over the whereabouts of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu may have been put to rest as a former governor of Abia State, Orju Uzor Kalu said at the weekend that Kanu fled to London.
Kanu and his father had disappeared after soldiers allegedly attacked his residence in Abia State. And his whereabouts has remained a controversy since then with his lawyers accusing the military of keeping him in custody.
Speaking recently in an interview, Orju Uzor Kalu said the military didn’t take Nnamdi Kanu. “Kanu was not taken away by the military. Kanu went to Malaysia from where he travelled to the United Kingdom. Nnamdi Kanu is in London right now as we speak. He was not arrested by anybody.”
“He left the country on his own. One of his relations has spoken to me and explained everything because I wanted to see him and talk to him wherever he was and see how I could meet some Federal Government officials on his issue.
“I also wanted to see ways of talking to the President about him, and find common ground but his family told me that he has left the country, unless they are lying to me.”
ALSO SEE: UK seeks to unravel Kanu’s whereabouts
“I believe, whether he had left the country or not, he is not with the military because I asked the Commander of the 14 Brigade, Brig.-Gen. A.K Ibrahim, who is a very fine and good soldier, well-educated and dedicated, and he told me that they don’t know his whereabouts and I am sure, the Department of State Services have the same information.
“I also visited the commissioner of police and he said he didn’t know his whereabouts and that they are also looking for him.”
Recall that the UK government, through its high commission in Nigeria on Friday had seek clarification from the Federal Government if Nnamdi Kanu, a British citizen was dead or alive.
The Press Officer, UK high commission in Nigeria, Joe Abuku, stated that the inquiry followed reports that Kanu had been missing since September 14, 2017 when armed soldiers stormed his residence in Abia State.
But the military has consistently denied having him in custody. The DHQ said on Friday that it has no knowledge of the whereabouts of the IPOB leader.
Defence spokesman, John Enenche, who addressed journalists in Abuja stated that DHQ cannot be held responsible for the missing IPOB leader.

			
			Post Views: 
			121