Share this on WhatsApp
Ayeni Samson Temidayo an indigene of Auga Akoko Ondo State and the first child of a family of four, who lost dad exactly 10 years ago, stage name King Sammie has cited what made him take to doing secular music industry. The upcoming artiste cites the tools needed to rise to stardom in the industry and challenges  in a chat with Lanre Adesanya, he also spoke on other sundry issues. Excerpt:
 
What has the experience been like, I mean what particular genre of music are you cut out for and what are the appeals?
The experience has literally being “Bitter Sweet” filled with ups and downs. Positives and negatives but I’ve enjoyed every bit of the experience. It’s made me stronger and tougher mentally. My kind of music and craft cuts across and appeals to different divides of life. I’ve diversified a lot of times musically and I do and specializes in different music genres Rap,pop,R and B, reggae etc.

It’s a proven fact that 85% of musicians both upcoming and established, all started from the church. So secular inspirations came up when I started digesting beautiful sounds from very talented artistes from different backgrounds and cultures.

Truly its a world where moral values have massively depreciated, so my music and craft is aimed at correcting societal anomalies by being a voice for the less privileged. Not forgetting that as we put into consideration recording songs with lyrical depth and conscious message.

We must also drop joints that can make people dance because the economic situation is too tough and overbearing, I’ve been hugely influenced by my environment and the ghetto that I’m from. My musical intensity and inclinations cum passion couldn’t have being doused because my aim and goal isn’t just to make all the money in the world and show off but to teach the kids in the ghetto that impossible is not a word they need to conform to.
 
So how did singing became part of you, what career path were you toeing before you now discovered your strength in the making music?
Born and bread in Lagos South West Nigeria, Music has been a big part of my life, from childhood till this day I sang in the children’s choir during my days at Talabi Coker Methodist Church Surulere,before my family left the church to join another, that movement really  affected my growth vocally because I stopped singing and doing music actively for a few years. We later joined RCCG and I was introduced to the choir, so I’ve been a vocalist for the last 8 years.





 
Have you any one who believes in your dream and spur you for more feats? 




Yes! and to the glory of God he’s no other person but the very distinguished personality and honorable Olayiwola Olawale (mushin’s finest) I can only pray for more stars to his shining clouds.





Have you participated in any ground breaking event worthy of note? 
Yes I have. Star trek 2014, Felabration 2016 and legendary rapper @Ruggedman’s rugged concert earlier this year.
 
How soon do you think it will take you to blow as the saying goes in the Nigeria Music Industry ?
My chances of blowing up are as high as a skyscraper. I have quite a few especially in the hood I’m from Itire Ijesha and Surulere extensively. I picture myself at the apogee of not just Africa but the world music stage in a decade from today.





ALSO SEE: SERAP urges CJN to lift the ‘cloud’ hanging over Justice Salami Committee



Have you any plans to collaborate with music icons? 
As for dream collaborations with established stars. I’m dying to have one with the revered” 2face Idibia, then mi Abaga, Banky W and Wizkid,then internationally drake and rihanna.
 
Assess the Nigerian Music Industry and proffer some tit bits for talented youths,as Nigeria celebrates 57th Independence Day are the opportunities really visible ? 

 First of all the music industry in Nigeria has become very vibrant and viable. International awards have been consistently won by Nigerian musicians and we presently dominate the music on the continent. And to youths grinding out here trying to make it big in the industry. The advise is don’t be a photocopy, be original and portray to the public your true Identity. Oscar Wilde the great philosopher said “be yourself because everybody else is taken’ your real identity will give you “Longevity’ in the business. 

Nigeria celebrating her 57th year independence anniversary can only mean one thing to an average youth, the opportunities are rare very few and rare. But when there’s a will there’s a way. Get out of your comfort zone and opportunities are buried deep beneath the hallowed grounds. “impossibility dose not exist in the dictionary of a winner”.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment