By Odunewu Segun
Information has started emerging on why Nigeria’s latest Pay TV firm, TStv launched on October 1st postponed commencement of operation to November 1st.
National Daily gathered that the postponement may not be unconnected with the fears that competitors may buy up the decoders for dumping purpose so as to disrupt the operation.
According to the Managing Director, Bright Echefu, the delay in releasing the decoders to the public was to ensure that dealers were properly scrutinized so that the decoders do not fall into the wrong hands.
In his words; “We don’t want a situation where someone would pick our decoders and dump them somewhere. That is why we are very careful because of competition”.
Continuing, he said “We have received well over 6,000 applications and it has been overwhelming processing these people; but so far, we have been able to accredit more than 748 dealers and we have received applications from more than 3,000 of them.
Echefu said that measures had been put in place to ensure its sustainability in terms of services, pledging that the organisation would be envied by many Nigerians in the next ten years. 
He disclosed that the organisation currently had a total of 250 staff on direct employment, while it expects to that indirect employment would hit 10,000 at take-off.
He revealed that TSTV has improved on its transmission facilities to overcome weather challenges while expressing happiness over the acceptance by Nigerians, adding that TStv would consolidate on the new tax policy granted it by the government to grow its business in the country and recoup its investment.
ALSO SEE: TStv postpones start date
On the alleged copyright infringement on two international content providers, Turner Broadcasting System and beIN sports, Echefu said the company entered into partnership agreement with every concerned organisation.
Echefu also added that TSTV will air CNN and beIN sport channels.
According to TStv boss, “Commercialization of our decoders will resume officially on Nov. 1 and by that time, every part of Nigeria would have TStv decoders for people to buy”.
“We are releasing about one million which can go round and our target for the first quarter is one million units. In every quarter we will bring one million units and we are targeting four million units within the next one year.
Recall that during the unveiling on October 1st, Echefu, said TStv would launch its services with about one million decoders nationwide, promising to give out free 5,000 decoders. 
Though he did not give details on how the free decoders will be accessed, Echefu averred that the first set of decoders with one month free subscription to test run its services.