An Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, witness, Michael Adariku, on Thursday told an Abuja High Court how N1.4 billion security vote from the office of ex-NSA Sambo Dasuki was diverted.

The witness is an officer of EFCC testifying in the trial of the former national security adviser standing trial on a 19-count charge bordering on alleged diversion of N13.6 billion since 2015.

On trial along with  Dasuki were Shuaibu Salisu, a former Director of Finance, Office of the National Security Adviser, and Aminu Baba-Kusa, a former NNPC executive director, and two others.

Adariku said that the diversion was made through a company owned by Baba-Kusa.

The company, Acacia Holdings LTD., was credited with the sum from the accounts of ONSA purportedly for a national prayer to be organised for Nigeria.

The witness, led in evidence by EFCC’s counsel, Rotimi Jacobs, narrated how N650 million was transferred from ONSA’s Zenith Bank account to Acacia Holdings account with Ecobank for the purpose of the said prayer.

He, however, said that from the response of Ecobank, N650 million was transferred to various individuals and companies contrary to the purpose it was disbursed for.

Mr. Adariku further revealed that on April 20, 2015, N150 million was transferred to the account of Baba-Kusa, and that on April 22, another N70 million was transferred to one Jubril Abdullahi for purposes not stated.

He said that on April 22, an account to account transfer of N50 million was forwarded to the account of Mr. Baba-Kusa between May 4 and May 6, 2015.

The witness said that another transfer of N150 million was made to a company, Medical Plastics Ltd. found to be owned by Baba-Kusa and his wife, Hauwa, who own 1.8 million shares in the company.

The witness further revealed how N200 million was transferred from ONSA’s account with Zenith bank to Acacia Holdings Ltd. account with the United Bank for Africa on Oct. 9, 2014.


ALSO SEE: New Aare Onakakanfo says he’ll defer to these two Yoruba leaders


He added that another N600 million was transferred from ONSA’s account to Acacia on April 17, 2015.

While in the process of giving vivid account of how the sums were transferred to various individuals and companies, the counsel to Acacia Holdings, Biodun Layonu (SAN) raised an objection.

Layonu objected to the witness’ testimony on the ground that the documents relating to 
the transactions were not clear in the copies that the prosecution served them.


He said that most of the figures being quoted by the witness had been blanked out in the 
document in his possession.

Justice Husseini Baba-Yusuf, acknowledged the observation by the defence counsel for 
Acacia and directed that the prosecution should make clearer copies available to the defendants before the next adjourned date.

He then adjourned the trial until December 13 and 14 for continuation of trial.

 

			
			PV: 
			0