Share this on WhatsApp

Otunba Segun Adewale (Aeroland) a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, has disclose reasons why he choose to vie for the party’s chairmanship position again, citing the void of selfless individuals in the race.

As the jostling for who becomes chairman of the Lagos PDP hots up, Adewale has thrown his hat in the ring again, stating unequivocally that all those indicating intent for the post are sycophants who are really not after  the interest of the party.

According  to him, for the survival of the PDP in Lagos State, quality individuals must be interested in the running of the Party’s affairs.

“However, three weeks from the State Congress, no one within our political ideology has shown interest in the position of the State Chairman.

ALSO SEE: Aisha’s statement incites NASS against Aso Rock

“Rather than allow the “yes men” and stooge of leaders whose affiliation with other political parties cost us virtually all elections since 1999, I am contesting the chairmanship. Adewale said.

Speaking on the way forward,Adewale (Aeroland )who was reported recently to have indicated his aspiration in the guber race of Ekiti State, noted that imposition is an I’ll wind that will blow the party no good.

“We must put an end to imposition in Lagos PDP. I wish to appeal to all lovers of democracy within the PDP to rise and challenge imposition in our party.

” I am surprised that none of those complaining about the style of leadership in the Lagos PDP has shown interest in leading the change we have always advocated.

I was at the State party secretariat yesterday, everyone I met with the caretaker Chairman are those that have left us in times of need at one point of the other.

“The other two people that has shown interest in the chairmanship position are from a political dynasty that some of us have always resisted because of their dictatorial tendencies and orientation.

“I will rather stand alone fighting for what we believe is best for the Party since others seem not interested.”He said.

Aeroland however, noted that he is willing to step down for a credible and reliable candidate to pursue other political aspiration.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment