Share this on WhatsApp

Environmental Health Graduates today staged a peaceful protest to urge the Lagos State House of Assembly to intervene in the non-invitation of the Environmental Health Officers cadre in the ongoing recruitment exercise in the state.

The group expressed grievance at the exercise being carried out by the Lagos State Local Government Service Commission.

The Coordinator of the Group, Mr Nureni Basorun told the lawmakers that the group had acquired relevant trainings to fit into the job having worked for the state as non-pensionable staff.

“This group is an environment health graduates. We have actually gone through the rudiments of trainings for the cadre of environmental health officers and fit to work at any level-both public and private.

“Majority of us have been working in the system of the Lagos State Government as non-pensionable staff with the hope that when opportunity arises for work, we would become full fledge staff.

“Just some weeks ago, Sept. 24 to Sept. 29, 2017, the Lagos State Local Government Service Commission placed adverts for some jobs and our own job also have vacant positions and we applied.

“Just last week we heard and know that interview exercise are going on but till this moment, all other cadres have been called but funny enough, our own cadre is about to be swapped  for graduates from courses like anthropology, bio-technology, water science, crop protection and fishery and we thought this shouldn’t be.

“ This is Lagos State-a Centre of Excellence. We should not fix a square pegs in a round hole, it will never fit. That is why we are here before you to help us look into the situation that we are presently experiencing.

“Why would they not invite us? Having made the application open for everybody to put in and they should give us a level playin ground and allow us to participate in the screening and interview exercise going on,” he said.


Basorun, who said that the group had various letter at hand about what was going on  at the Lagos State Local Government Service Commission, submitted same to the House.

Responding, the Speaker of the House, Mr Mudashiru Obasa said that House would look at the petition and engage all relevant parties to resolve the issues.

ALSO SEE: Customs seize 3,665 vehicles worth N13bn from smugglers

Obasa, who was represented by Mr Segun Olulade, the Chairman, House Committee on Health Services commended the protesters for peaceful conduct and assured them of quick intervention.

“I want to welcome you to your own House. We are all here on your behalf and we are here to defend your rights. We are here to stand by
you.

“We will receive your petition and I can assure you that we are going to work on it immediately.

“We will cotact your representatives and also call on other parties to explain the rationale behind it so that we can be on the same page.

“I am aware there was a publication on vacancies and I believe you also have a right to apply. We will look into your matter and see how to address it. We will get back to you very soon,” Obasa said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment