Share this on WhatsApp



By Idebaneria Cynthia
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has begun training of its staff on voter education to end voters’ apathy in Ebonyi state in preparation for 2019 elections.
The Ebonyi Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof. Godswill Obioma, made this known in an interview on Friday in Abakaliki.
He explained that only 30 per cent of eligible voters participated in the electoral process in the state, saying that the commission was determined to change the situation for the better.
He said that the training was designed to build capacity of the trainees so as to be able take voter education to the grassroots and to effectively mobilise the people to participate in the electoral process.
The REC said that the training of the commission’s staff on voter education was part of strategies and preparation to ensure mass participation in the 2019 general elections in the state
According to him, voter education is a critical component in the electoral process because it is used in mobilizing the voter to carry out their civic duties at a stipulated time.
The INEC chief noted that the beauty of participatory democracy rest in the ability of greater number of the people to participate in the process of choosing their leaders.
“Lack of proper voter education has made most eligible voters to shun participation in the electoral process and such a decision often results in the emergence of non-credible leaders.
ALSO SEE: Osinbajo, Saraki to kick off Nwoye campaign
“It is an important civic responsibility of every adult to participate in all the electoral processes including voter registration, voting in an election and ensuring that your votes are protected.
“A situation where only insignificant 30 per cent of eligible voting population participate in the electoral process is unacceptable and we are working hard to change the people’s mindset,” Obioma said.
Obioma also called for support from the media, traditional rulers, politicians, their supporters and other stakeholders in the political process in ensuring the success of the voter education in the state.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment