Share this on WhatsApp



 
It is an open secret that some international financial institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) were campaigning for the float of the Naira as the only cogent way to solve the chronic dollar shortage as well as stimulate economic development. 
However, the CBN refused to budge, rather opting for a gradual relaxation of currency controls it had earlier tightened through a flexible forex policy which began implementation inn February this year.
Speaking at an interactive session with editors in Abuja during the weekend, CBN’s Director of Corporate Communication, Isaac Okoroafor, stated that the CBN had to resist powerful forces, including several very influential individuals and organisations who wanted to float the Naira despite the uncertainty of exposing the currency to the extreme impulses of the market.
He concluded that these powerful forces that were determined to pillage and control the economy by insisting that the Naira be floated.
ALSO SEE: TSTV: Nigeria’s first pay-per-view satellite TV hits homes
Although not mentioning exactly why, Okoroafro also insinuated that the National Assembly could be among those piling pressure on the CBN through their incessant summons. These summons were “sometimes every day, seven times in a week.” According to him, “at every hearing in the National Assembly, the CBN will always be invited” demonstrating how frequent the summons.
Okarafor went on to laud the wisdom of the CBN’s course to as he noted the positive outcomes in the forex management system as well as the near convergence of both black market and official market exchange rates. 
He also noted that the current 0.55% growth index of the economy is another testimony of the success of their method. The next target of the apex bank is how reduce the inflation to a single digit.
Since then, the disparity between the official rate and parallel market rates, which at one time hovered at around 20%, has virtually disappeared. Similarly, forex liquidity has significantly improved with majority of the genuine demand for forex being satisfied. 
These results have enabled the CBN to have the last laugh, despite the tense moments that must have accompanied their implementation of the unorthodox, risky but successful methods.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment