Share this on WhatsApp





Ahead of  Friday town hall parley that will be held in all the  forty constituencies in Lagos State, Hon Rotimi Olowo representing  Shomolu constituency I, had given  financial assistance to 200 petty traders.

Olowo the chairman House committee on Budget and Economic planning in his personal upliftment visit, toured the notable markets in Shomolu, personally handing out cash gifts to petty traders.

Speaking with newsmen after the distribution of the kind gesture, Olowo disclose what prompted the financial assistance of about a million naira.

“I had observed over time that some of the  market women who trade in wares that are not more than 2000,3000 naira,shoulder enormous responsibilities everyday and understand that we need to go round and support them.

“Knowing that through the sale of their wares they have been able to support their families,a larger percentage of families depends on the mother, they are the ones fending for their children and in Nigeria today we have lots of challenges.




ALSO SEE: Police rescues two missing children in Lagos


“Many men are not responsible,leaving the woman with the responsibility for the upkeep of the children, I decided to go out and support them with an envelope of five thousand naira each for those peasant traders with the believe that this will go a long way to assist them build the family of their dream. Olowo said.

Speaking on the target for the assistance, Olowo noted that

“I look at their social economic realities like somebody selling roasted plantain,locust bean,oranges,pepper,popcorn,indomie,groundnut,you will appreciate that all that she is selling is less than five thousand naira, I also consider the old ones as well, I was doing that on impulse and those that are in dire needs”.

He added that he would further empower 133 widows tomorrow with 10,000 naira each.

In an unannounced visit to the seven choice markets in Shomolu area namely,  Oyediran market Bajulaiye,Alarape market, Alashela market Onipanu, Alade Market on market street, Olaleye Market Awofeso Street, Shomolu local government Model Market Siperu street, and the fish market,  the lawmaker radiates joy all around as the traders were made five thousand richer standing close to their wares.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment