President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed his shock over the content of the leaked memo written by the Minister of State for Petroleum resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu to him.
National Daily gathered from reliable source within the Villa, that the President was furious when he learnt that the Minister had tried to see him, and was prevented.
According to the source, President Buhari said he never got any memo nor any complaints from the Minister of State until Tuesday when he read the memo from an online news site.
Although, Dr. Kachikwu has expressed displeasure over the leakage to public, the memo has been trending, and he has reportedly secured an appointment with President Muhammadu Buhari for today, October 5, over the leaked memo.
In the memo, Nigeria’s minister of state for petroleum resources, Ibe Kachikwu, laid some accusations at the door of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Kachikwu accused Maikanti Baru, general managing director of the NNPC of undermining his office and dragging the reputation of the corporation in the mud.
ALSO SEE: Kachikwu moves Senate against NNPC boss Baru
According to Ibe Kachikwu, Baru has failed to consult and carry him along in the activities of the corporation. He also alleged that Baru was already hindering all the envisaged positive changes for the oil and gas sector. 
He also accused the NNPC GMD of awarding contracts running into billions of dollar without due process. Kachikwu said against the rules, some major contracts were never reviewed or discussed with him or the board of NNPC. 
He listed some of the contracts as: The crude Term contracts- value at over $10bn The DSDP contracts – value over $5bn The AKK pipeline contract- value approximately $3bn various financing allocation funding contracts with the NOCs- value over $3bn Various NPDC production service contracts- value at over $3bn-$4bn.
Ibe Kachikwu also mentioned the fact that after several attempts he had been unable to meet the Nigerian president to discuss but was being blocked by some powerful people in the Presidency.

			
			Post Views: 
			295