Share this on WhatsApp

Partners top organizations to tackle unemployment in the country




In line with its drive to improve lives of customers and support them in achieving their aspirations, leading finance institution, First City Monument Bank has announced the start of #FCMBFlexxtern 2.0, one of its youth empowerment initiatives.
#FCMBFlexxtern is an initiative targeted at young, smart Nigerians in search of the opportunity to gain first-hand experience in the business world. By participating in the contest, fresh graduates or final year students between the ages of 16-25 years stand a chance to get a 3-month internship with FCMB or one of the organizations partnering with the bank.
To enter the #FCMBFlexxtern contest, interested contestants should simply upload a 45-second video to YouTube explaining why they should be selected as an #FCMBFlexxtern, then go over to the #FCMBFlexxtern Portal (http://on.fcmb.com/Flexxtern2-19) to submit their entries and get their friends to vote for them. The most voted entries will then be independently screened by a panel of judges, after which 20 winners will emerge. Entry submission to the #FCMBFlexxtern closes on Sunday, October 22, 2017.
Last year, the maiden edition of the #FCMBFlexxtern initiative saw 5 Flexxterns emerge, with 3 of them getting retained by their organizations at the end of the 3-month internship. This year, there are 20 #FCMBFlexxtern 3-month internship slots available.
FCMB has partnered organizations in a wide range of sectors for this year’s #Flexxtern initiative including Terragon Group, Vconnect, TISV Digital, IrokoTV, Insight Publicis, House of Tara International, Mai Atafo and DBH Solutions. Others are Cube Soft, Enthyst, SMEFUNDS, RecyclePoints, NetPlusDotCom and People Productivity Solutions.
 
FCMB’s Flexx proposition is targeted at young people who are actively seeking platforms which allow them to express their uniqueness, while building skills for financial success. A youth-centric banking product, Flexx is designed to meet the overall financial needs of young people within the age range of 18 and 25 years, where and how they want those needs met. This is summarized in the description of Flexx as “An app. A card. An account”, which gives account holders the freedom to bank on the go using the Flexx Mobile App, as well as access relevant lifestyle and skills-building content.

In addition, with their Flexx card, they can conveniently withdraw cash, make payments online and on Point-of-Sale machines and access exclusive discounts and freebies from Flexx partners. This interesting departure from the common market offering gives the account holder full access to “flexx” (a popular expression which means to “show off”) and the opportunity to express a lifestyle that will be the envy of their peers who do not have Flexx accounts.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment