Share this on WhatsApp




The National Executive Council (NEC) of the Campaign for Democracy (CD) has sacked its General Secretary Mr Goodluck Obi over breach of group’s constitutional provisions.
In a communiqué jointly issued and signed by the NEC at the end of the Special Convention of the group in Lagos, Obi was found guilty of the allegations leveled against him by a five-man disciplinary panel constituted to investigate him.
The communiqué was signed by Mr Bako Abdul Usman, President of CD, Mr Ifeanyi Odilli, the new General Secretary, Mr Lanre Ogunyinka, National Publicity Publication Secretary and Mr Olufemi Lawson, Chairman, Communiqué Drafting Committee.
“The convention, which had in attendance, full representation of the members of the National Executive Council, Delegates across the Federation and leaders of the geo political zones of the organization.
“Whereas, there were robust deliberations, bothering on discipline, decorum, decency and the respect to the aims and objectives of the organization, the deliberations were done under strict consideration of the integrity of the organization.
“Congress received and considered the report, of the Comrade Lanre Ogunyinka led 5-man disciplinary panel of the organization, and deliberated on the imperatives, going by the number and barrage of evidences presented to the committee, coupled with the failure to harness the opportunities available, for Prince Goodluck Obi, to defend these allegations.
“As a matter of fact, the admittance of Prince Goodluck Obi, of all the allegations, became more pronounced by his reckless and unconstitutional public publications of recent.
“Congress described as unfortunate, the admittance of the erstwhile General Secretary, that “since the alleged cited activities were conducted on the platform of Centre for Civil Society and Justice (CCSJ), and not the Campaign for Democracy, CD, in one of his public rejoinders.
“Congress adopted the recommendations of the 5-man panel and thereafter, ratified the expulsion of Prince Goodluck Obi, as member and General Secretary of the CD,’’ the communiqué said.
According to the communiqué, the Congress advised members of the public to desist from dealing with the expelled General Secretary, in any capacity, as a member of the CD.
ALSO SEE: How import cabal frustrated operations of Nigeria’s refineries
Having reviewed the State of the Nation,the NEC of CD also elected Comrade Ifeanyi Odili as the new General Secretary, who was sworn in to replace the expelled Obi.
On the state of the nation, the Congress condemned the recent demand by the Nigerian Governors Forum for a fresh bailout from the Federal Government.
It demanded for a probe of the utilisation of the previously released bailout funds to the various states by the Economic Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
It added: “Congress, endorsed the ongoing anti-corruption campaign of the federal government and demanded an immediate release of the Vice President Osinbajo led panel of investigation, on the former SGF Babachir Lawal, and NIA DG, Ayo Oke.
“Congress mandated the NEC, to facilitate a National Summit to deliberate on the ongoing agitations, for the Restructuring of Nigeria.’’


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment