Share this on WhatsApp

Two heartless thieves have strangled a commercial bike rider identified as Umar Yakubu, and buried his remains in a shallow grave in Benue state.




The middle aged suspects, Donald Agena and Ezekiel Arger, were arrested by the Benue state Police Command in Guma local government area.

Paraded with 27 others in Makurdi, the State’s Commissioner of Police, Mr. Bashir Makama explained that the suspects killed the Okada rider after they had stolen his bike before burying his corpse in a shallow grave at a Forest in Niger state.

CP Makama further explained that “Based on intelligence reports, our patrol team few days ago, about 8pm arrested Donald Agena and Ezekiel Arger both male of Udei and Ukpan villages in Guma local government area of Benue State with an unregistered Bajaj motorcycle.

“The suspects were picked up and upon interrogation they confessed to have stolen the motorcycle from their victim, one Umar Yakubu, an Okada rider at Maaiki village whom they strangled to death.

“This was after they had dispossessed him of the said motorcycle and buried him in a shallow grave at a forest along Maaiki village -Yaba junction, Lapai Local government area of Niger State.

Mr. Makama reiterated that the “Ember Months Operations” embarked on by the command was yielding positive results.

He noted that the command also traced and arrested a man who was discovered to be receiver of stolen motorbikes in the area.


ALSO SEE: Police arrest four soldiers, others for vandalism


Also, a gang of about seven alleged robbery suspects who allegedly attacked and snatched a Rover Car with registration number MKD 120 HD at the North Bank area of Makurdi town was also paraded by CP Makama.

He said, “Our team of Operation Zenda at Daudu in Guma local government intercepted the vehicle and arrested them after Ortese village.



The suspects include: Ike Chibuike, Iwu Godwin, Udo Sunday, Ferdinand Nwachukwu and Maduabuchi Mathias all male of different addresses.

It was further learnt that the suspects are been investigated and would be charged to court on completion of various police investigations.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment