Share this on WhatsApp

The Nigerian Army said the purpose for which Exercise EGWU EKE 2 was designed has been achieved.

The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, who officially declared the operation closed on Saturday at the Tactical Headquarters in Umuahia, explained that the achievements recorded during the Exercise was “remarkable.”

“In the areas of attainment of the mission specific training objectives, improvement in peace and security, curtailing the menace of violent irredentist groups in the theatre of the Exercise (South Eastern part of Nigeria) is remarkable.

Gen Buratai was represented by the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 82 Division Nigerian Army, Major General Adamu Baba Abubakar, who formally declare the end of  Exercise EGWU EKE 11.

National Daily learnt that the ceremony took place in Sector 1 Tactical Headquarters at  Umuahia, Abia State with the traditional activation of camp fire to formally signify the successful completion of the Exercise.

The GOC, General Abubakar commended all the officers, soldiers and personnel of paramilitary organizations that collaborated and synergized, worked tirelessly and commendably throughout the one month period for the Exercise.”

On the part of the Government of Abia State, the representative of the Governor of Abia State, Engineer Emmanuel Nwabuko, expressed gratitude for the numerous achievements of Exercise EGWU EKE 11 in terms of improvement of peace, security and stability of the State.



ALSO SEE: Operation Crocodile Smile 2 to smoke out criminals – Buratai



“The collaborative relationship with the Nigerian Army can be traced  to the time when in 2010 – 2011 kidnappers, armed robbers and other hoodlums paralyzed economic and social activities in the State.



“It was the army that rescued us. So, we are ready to always leverage on this relationship whenever the need arise,” he reiterated.




Deputy Director Public Relations 82 Division, Col Sagir Musa added in the statement that the Camp Fire was quite remarkable as troops surged, formed a ring and gyrated round the fire, shouting and praising the Chief of Army Staff and the GOC for providing them necessary logistics to successfully conduct the military Exercise.

In attendance were the representative of the Chief of Training and Operations, Army Headquarters, Brigadier General Ndalolo, Defence Headquarters Observer Team led by Commodore Shammah, the Security Adviser to Abia State Governor, Captain (rtd) Idonsi Awa and the Commanders of 14 and 34 Brigades Brigadier Generals AK Ibrahim and IH Bature.

Others were the Commanders of 44 Engineer Brigade, Brigadier Generals Mark Mamman, 82 Division Garrison, LA Adegboye and Supply and Transport , Brig Gen EA Anaryu.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment