By Odunewu Segun
Not many realised that the newly appointed deputy governor of the Central Bank of Bank (CBN), who replaces the retired Mrs. Sarah Alade, has over twenty years working experience as banker with half of those in managerial position.
She has over 20 years’ experience in the banking sector, even more than her MD at Diamond, Uzoma Dozie. 
So when a post went viral on social media, alleging that the Ahmad was hurriedly promoted to the position of executive director at Diamond Bank Plc in other to make her eligible for the new position, people wonder the motive behind the post.
They also complained about her age—40, saying she is too young for the job. 
To begin with, section 8 (1) of the CBN Act 2007 only state one qualification for any nominee to the position–the governor and deputy-governors “shall be persons of recognised financial experience”. No other qualification is stated. No minimum age is stipulated.
Aside that, two sitting deputy governors of the CBN, Sulieman Barau, (Corporate services) and  Okwu Joseph Nnanna, (Financial system stability) were never ED before their appointments.
According to findings by National Daily, Barau, until his appointment in 2007 was a general manager at the defunct FSB International Bank Plc, while Nnanna was an adviser to the governor before he was appointed 2015.
Ahmad, National Daily gathered, is a seasoned banker who rose to the enviable position of deputy general manager before being promoted to an Executive Director.
Having risen to the Senior Management level of Deputy General Manager prior, she meets the basic requirement coupled with her academic background. What is key is her ability to harness the existing Directorate skill with the organisation & setting up a great Technical & Advisory Team made up of Economists, industry, an expert said.
An economist and management consultant, Osilama Okuofu said those peddling the news that she is not qualified are being economical with the truths.
ALSO SEE: Sunset on Emefiele
He said the whole gymnastics of appointing her an Executive Director in Diamond Bank is merely an optic to create a semblance of executive management experience.  “This is where the whole hoopla is coming from & that is not a prerequisite for her appointment as a CBN Deputy Governor going by the statute establishing the entity.”
Okuofu said going by the yard stick being banter around, someone like Prof. Soludo should not have been made Governor. 
He said there is no legal basis or precedence to vitiate her nomination as CBN deputy-governor on the ground of having not been an executive director in a bank, neither is there any proof that her elevation to the position of ED fell on the same day as her nomination. 
According to her resume, she has worked at local and global institutions, including NAL Bank Plc, Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc (a member of Standard Bank Group) and Zenith Bank Plc.
She was responsible for the consumer banking division at Diamond Bank Plc comprising consumer banking group, privilege banking group, retail assets group and bancassurance. 

			
			PV: 
			0