Share this on WhatsApp

By OKOSUN DENNIS




In consonance with the Nigerian Army training mandate, troops of 81 Division Nigerian Army, and its affiliated formations and units, have begun Exercise Crocodile Smile 2.

The exercise is taking place within its Area of Responsibility (AOR) which covers Lagos and Ogun States and the 2017 Exercise CROCODILE SMILE II would last between 7th– 28th October 2017.

According to the Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, 81 Division, Lt Col Olaolu Daudu said that “the exercise is intended to sharpen troops’ skills on the procedures and conduct of Internal Security operations in aid of civil authorities, administration in the field, and logistics involved.

“It will also avail troops the opportunity to sharpen their combat skills in the conduct of land based as well as joint riverine operations.”

Lt Col Daudu further explained in a statement made available to National Daily that “the exercise would also feature humanitarian activities such as free medical outreach in some selected communities and the conduct of sanitation exercises by the troops for the benefit of their host communities.

Besides, he reiterated, “It is also expected that troops would be more proficient in equipment maintenance, reconnaissance, inter-service and inter-agency cooperation, as well as effective application of the Nigerian Army Code of Conduct and strict adherence to Rules of Engagement (ROE), during internal security operations or disaster management when called upon in aid of civil authorities.


ALSO SEE: Ex-Chief of Army Staff, Victor Malu, is dead


National Daily gathered that the exercise may transform into real operations to deal with emerging security challenges such as kidnappings, cultism, armed robbery, pipeline vandalism, and insurgency, among others within the Divisions area of responsibilities.

However, he explained that “Exercise CROCODILE SMILE II is not targeted at any individual or group” and therefore called on every “law abiding citizens to go about their normal businesses without fear.”

While admonishing the public to cooperate with the authority of the Nigerian Army, Lt Col Daudu added that the general public shouldn’t panic as they would witness “increased movements of troops and equipment during the period,” noting that the exercise is aimed at making the Nigerian Army responsive to its Constitutional roles.

While unveiling further information about the NA and the exercise in particular, the DAPR said,  “In addition to the Nigerian Army Information and Call Centre Telephone Number 193 (Using all Networks toll free) and Human Right Desk Number 08160134303/ 08161507644, the under listed cell phones numbers are dedicated to members of the public to enable them pass credible information regarding Exercise CROCODILE SMILE 11; 09039125792; 08112298825; 09083003590 and 08122315667.

Members of the public could also Interact via Facebook account: EXERCISE CROCODILE SMILE II and Twitter account:@excrocsmile2


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment