By Boluwatife Ezekiel Olaleye

Barcelona may have started the new season in dominant form but that has not stopped some of their top stars reportedly questioning their defensive approach.

The Catalan giants have won nine of their first 10 La Liga matches to sit top of the table, scoring 28 goals and conceding just three, and already eight points ahead of bitter rivals Real Madrid.

Considering they were hammered 5-1 by Real in the Super Cup in August, it has been a complete turnaround under new boss Ernesto Valverde.

However, questions are said to have been asked about the style of play under Valverde. Indeed the weekend win at Athletic Bilbao largely flattered Barca as goalkeeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen was named Man of the Match.

“The truth is we struggled a lot,” said Sergio Busquets post-game.

According to Diario Gol, Messi and his team-mates have informed Valverde that they are concerned with the manner of some of their performances.

It is also claimed that staff members have declared in private that they believe Barca have become “defensive” under the former Bilbao boss.

ALSO SEE: Neymar pays suprise visit to Barcelona

The news come five weeks after a reported confrontation between Messi and Valverde over the Argentine superstar’s new central role.

In truth, Messi has been fairly spectacular in his new position and it is his goals and play that have steered Barca to the La Liga summit, however Luis Suarez has suffered as a result and has not looked the same player this season.

Indeed, Sky Sports‘ Spanish expert Guillem Balague added: “Barcelona have been very impressive defensively.

“Everybody is working very hard without the ball and they have only shipped three goals so far. But their football is not spectacular and there’s a couple of reasons why.

“They are playing without wingers, which tightens everything up in the central areas. With little space to work, their play becomes more industrial and Luis Suarez suffers.

“Now that Lionel Messi is working more through the middle, Suarez has to move wider. That’s not his natural habitat.”

			
			Post Views: 
			31