By Boluwatife Ezekiel Olaleye

Chelsea manager Antonio Conte has said that the club is “in trouble” after a third Premier League defeat of the season against bottom table Crystal Palace.

Chelsea is now nine points adrift of leaders Manchester City in the title race.

Striker Wilfried Zaha’s second-half goal earned Palace their first win of the season at Selhurst Park on Saturday.

Victor Moses suffered a hamstring in the game, while midfielders N’Golo Kante and Danny Drinkwater as well as striker Alvaro Morata were out due to injuries.

However, the latter is back in training with a view to featuring against Roma on Wednesday after nursing a hamstring problem during the October international break.

Chelsea’s title defence is already on the rocks after three losses in their first eight Premier League matches, and Conte is under no illusions as to the task ahead.

He told reporters, “I think every season is different. Last season is the past. Now it is another squad, different players and for this reason, if we compare last season, we didn’t play Europa League or Champions League.

ALSO SEE: Lionel Messi expecting third child

“This season we are facing four competitions and we are having a few problems doing this. When you have a few injuries, you are in trouble.

“We mustn’t be happy. This season will be very difficult for us. For this reason we have to put 150 percent in; 100 percent won’t be enough. I have players with a great will to work and fight.

“For sure we have to find the strength to overcome this moment. Everyone can see our situation. You know very well the potential of the other teams but it is important for us to look at ourselves.

“This season will be difficult but also we have to understand we have to try to build something important for the future, to give the opportunity to the new players to have more experience in this league, to give the opportunity to young players to show they deserve to stay and play for Chelsea. We must have patience this season to understand it won’t be easy.”

			
			Post Views: 
			76