Share this on WhatsApp
All is set for the unveiling of TSL auto hi-tech multi brand after-sales service centre in Lagos with a 30% discounts to customers who bring their vehicle for servicing between 19th and 30th of October.

The auto centre, a one-stop auto shop for all brands of vehicles, situated along Apapa-Oshodi expressway, will be unveiled on the 19th of October by a veteran in Nigeria’s auto industry, Raju Sawlani.

Speaking at a press conference to herald activities for the launch of the centre, Raju Sawlani, a former MD of Stallion Motors told journalists that the centre would revolutionize automobile after sales service in Nigeria.

He said the equipment at the facility will make after sales service to both new and old vehicle a new experience as against the old order where vehicle servicing has become a nightmare.

Sawlani, also a former Executive Director with Coscharis said the new facility has 36 bays for vehicle maintenance, with two of the bays dedicated to trucks maintenance.

He also said unlike existing centres, TSL has the capacity to handle about 1,000 vehicles at time with seasoned and highly trained professionals on ground to attend to customers.

“I have handpicked the best technical personnel in the Nigerian auto industry- these are highly experienced individuals who I have observed over a 21-year period in addition, our machinery and equipment are from top manufacturers in the world,” Raju explained.

Speaking on the handling of high premium cars, Raju said TSL is out to prove to the world that super cars do need to be flown out of Nigeria for services as TSL is more than capable to handle such models irrespective of their production year.

“The main parameters that define repair quality are quality of workmanship, genuineness of spare parts and the overall customer experience, including affordability which TSL is out to prove,” Raju added.

He said the stress caused by fake and substandard spare parts to customers is making car owners distraught with existing after sales service centres, more importantly the high cost.

ALSO SEE: Sales,services: TSL brings succor to vehicle owners

“At TSL, we’re changing the trend with our highly trained professionals coupled with the spare parts that are sourced from original auto makers of the various brands being handled here.”

Raju explained that TSL is set up to bring back customer confidence in the auto market- from sales of both pre-owned and new vehicles. ”If you wish to purchase used vehicle in Lagos, but don’t whether to buy I because of the high mileage, I suggest you book an appointment with us and liaise with the seller to bring he vehicle to our workshop.”

He said TSL will do a comprehensive check on the vehicle in front of the seller and the buyer, hereby creating a transparent automotive marketplace, and also providing the buyer with a peace of mind warranty.

Raju Sawlani has put over twenty years in the Nigerian automotive industry. He was the first to implement breakthrough service campaigns in Nigeria like the 4yr/100,00km free service campaign. He was also awarded the On wheels leadership award for his outstanding vision, dedication and commitment to the Nigerian auto industry.
Share this on WhatsApp