Enugu APC attacks Foreign Affairs Minister over Atiku

The campaign for the re-election of President Muahmmadu Buhari in 2019 has cpontiinued to garner momentum within the All Progressive Congress (APC).the conglomerate of APC stakeholders that constituted the Buharists which include governors have continued to recruit supporters across the country.
Meanwhile, APC leaders in Enugu State have declared their support for President Buhari for a second term in office.
The party, in a statement on Monday in Enugu, by the State Publicity Secretary, Mrs. Kate Offor, reaffirmed its unequivocal endorsement of President Buhari for a second term in 2019.
“Buhari should be allowed to actualize his laudable programmes of revamping our dilapidated infrastructure, stamping out corruption and using the Enugu Coal to generate electricity.
“We wish to inform the media to disregard the malicious statements issued at times on behalf of Enugu State Chapter of the APC by Comrade Adolphos Ude. For the truism is that comrade Ude and his cohorts had been suspended for anti-party activities, fictionalization and breaking into the state chairman’s office, carting away vital documents.
“They are yet to show remorse or repent for their outright breach of section 21{5} & {6} of the APC’s constitution. They remain suspended and should not be dressed on borrowed ropes” she stated,” the party declared.
ALSO SEE: Oyedepo says 1979 revelation about Nigeria will come to pass
They commended the president on his fight against corruption, saying he should be allowed to actualize his laudable programme of revamping the nation’s dilapidated infrastructure, including using the Enugu Coal to generate electricity.
Offor further accused the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, of working for the 2019 presidential ambition of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar.
Offor declared in the statement: “we are  at  a loss on how the Honorable Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, after series of advice by stakeholders is still associating with Comrade Ude and cohorts who are still working day and night to hijack the structure of APC in Enugu State; to feature the 2019 presidential ambition of his Excellency Atiku Abubakar.”
She contended that, “Therefore, the major sin of our state chairman, Ben Nwoye committed is his resistance to this obnoxious ambition to hand over APC structure to his Excellency Atiku Abubakar. No wonder the minister is singling out Nwoye in his so called probe of party finances, especially when he was neither in Enugu during the elections nor participated in APC affairs before his appointment.
“In sum, it is ironical that while many Nigerians are condemning the Minister of Women Affairs, Aisha Alhassan when she made an open support for Atiku, little did they know that Hon. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, is covertly Pro- Atiku.”

			
			Post Views: 
			232