Share this on WhatsApp


uncovers ritualists shrine


A notorious gang of armed robbers who shot a police corporal identified as Aladejare Adedeji and collected his AK47 rifle with 30 rounds of ammunition has been arrested in Meran area of Lagos.



The arrest of the three robbers was made by personnel of the Zonal Intervention Squad (ZIS), Zone 2 Area Command, Onikan Lagos.

The suspects revealed that they rob residents of Ijegun, Meran, Isheri,  Ikotun,and Salolo along AIT road, Alagbado area of Lagos state.

Two receivers of their stolen goods were also apprehended.

Briefing the press at the ZIS office at Obada Oko, Ogun state, the Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone 2 Police Command, Onikan Lagos AIG Adamu Ibrahim gave the names of the suspects as Kazeem Babalola Oladipupo aka (Aka Ire),  Segun Alade Sunday aka (Baba Ife) and Rasaki  Owolabi aka (Anjongolo).

Others include are Adekunle Ibrahim aka (Oshodi) and Salau Taiwo.

AIG Adamu accompanied during the briefing by the Zonal PPRO, Superintendent Dolapo Badmos said, “A gang of robbers who shot Corporal Adedeji and carted away his AK 47 loaded with 30 rounds of live ammunitions were tracked down by operatives of ZIS.

The police boss claimed they recovered one AK47 rifle, one cut to size double barrel gun, one single barrel cut to size gun, five live cartridges and some assorted charms.

One of the suspects, a 24-year-old Rasaki Owolabi, a driver by profession, said, “I live at Ikotun where I met other gangs a couple of months ago at Agbara.

“I only accompany them on a robbery operations twice. The first operation was at Meran and the second was at Ikotun.

“In the two operations, I got N400, 000 and 700,000 respectively. However, I was not part of the robbery where the policeman’s gun was taken after he was shot,” he said.

On what he was doing before he joined the gang, Owolabi explained he has been a
commercial motorcycle rider but not a robber as police alleged.

Also confessing what he knew about the robbery, another suspect, Segun Alade said: “I am not a robber but only assisted them procure a gun from Ilara border in Cotonou, Benin Republic.

The  32 years old Alade said he bought the gun for N30, 000 claiming that one Sadiq, a cult member, has been the one sending him to buy the gun for him.





ALSO SEE: Navy tackles sea robbers as pirates attacks reduce

“Sadiq lives at Ijoko side, Sango. The moment I buy the gun and hand it over to him, I don’t know the people he usually give it to. I am only seeing these people with me for the first time. I don’t know them

“The first time I went to buy, the short gun was wrapped inside nylon and put it inside clothe and was given me to carry as he rode the bike.

“The second time, I put the gun inside polythene bag, hid it under my seat and rode the motorcycles myself. Many people used to go and buy them with motorcycle to Lagos.

He further explained that he was arrested after the buyers of the gun were arrested and they confessed him as the person that always buy the gun for them claiming he didn’t know they are armed robbers.

In another development, the police also uncovered a ritualists’ den at Abule Ifa, Siun area of Obafemi Owode Local Government, Ogun State.

Two suspects, who were arrested having been placed on surveillance were identified as Taiwo Adeleke, 47, and Kayode Oseni, 52.”

Several fetish materials and assorted charms were recovered in the shrine.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment