Share this on WhatsApp



Dr Maikanti Baru, the Group Managing Director,the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has urged Oyo and Osun State Governments to assist the corporation in curbing activities of pipeline vandals.
Baru, who made the appeal  during the re-inauguration of the loading operations in NNPC, Ibadan depot, noted that vandalism of pipelines was affecting the operations of the corporation.
He warned the vandals to desist from their nefarious act, that their illegal activity was detrimental to the national economic growth.
ALSO SEE: Kachikwu moves Senate against NNPC boss Baru
Ibadan Depot of the NNPC suspended loading operations in 2015 due to incessant pipeline vandalism but Baru, on assumption of duty in the corporation, promised to resuscitate the depot.
He expressed optimism that the re-activation of the depot and effective distribution of petroleum products would boost the economy of Ibadan and its environs.
Baru assured members of staff of NNPC other stakeholders that the corporation would continue to function to resolve various challenges facing the corporation.
Chief Suleiman Oladiti, the Chairman, Petroleum Tankers Drivers (PTD), said Baru had lived up to his promise of not leaving any stone unturned at ensuring re-activation of the various depots across the country.
He said members of PTD had been cooperating with the NNPC for the smooth distribution of petroleum products from Mosimi depot to various destinations throughout the time of loading suspension at Ibadan depot.
He called on the. NNPC management to join PTD in ensuring the reduction of road crashes involving fuel tankers to zero level by enhancing effort on safety standard
“In as much as the association appreciates the revamping and re-commissioning of the deposit in Ibadan,it becomes imperative for the management of NNPC not to compromise on safety standard.
‘’This will go a long way in achieving the desired objectives,’’ he said.
Also, the Chairman, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Alhaji Raheem Tayo, called for effective maintenance of the pipelines to ensure constant supply of all petroleum products.
The Governor of Oyo state, Mr  Abiola Ajimobi, commended NNPC for resuscitating Ibadan depot, saying that the move would boost the economy of Ibadan, the state capital and the state in general.
He promised to assist the corporation in the area of security in curbing activities of vandals.
The governor, however, advised the corporation to form security committee that would from time to time monitor activities of its various unions.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment